[]

Submitted By:

Brighton T. Shanji (5748131)

Sonam Choejur Tshering (5918422)

Senior Project 1

AU Car Checker

Table of Contents

Content Page

Introduction 3

Background 3

Problem Description 4

Reliance on naked eye 4

Vehicle Checkpoint 4

Solution 4

Project Scope 5

  Location 5

  Plate Number Retrieval 5

  Processing 5

  Statistics 5

  Process Flowchart 6

Timeline 7

System Overview 8

Previous Versions of the App 8

UI of the App 9

System Development 11

UI 11

Processing 12

Database Retrieval 14

Javascript Implementation 15

Running 18

Live Camera Implementation 19

Why Electron? 21

Why Firebase 21

System Constraints 21

Camera 21

CPU & Graphics 21

Difficulties Encountered 25

  Training OCR 25

  Camera Calibration 26

Conclusion 27

References 28

Introduction

Background

Most students who enter the university campus usually use some sort of
vehicle, whether it be a car, motorbike, bus, van or taxi. With all
these types of vehicles going in and out of the campus it is hard to
keep track of the vehicle types and models in the premises.

Assumption University is a private Catholic university that specializes
in educational services for students both of Thai nationality and from
abroad. The school consists of 13 faculties, offering 38 Bachelors’
degrees, 19 Masters’ degrees and 13 Doctoral degrees. As this is an
institute, hundreds of vehicles, ranging from bikes to vans, to buses to
taxis and cars; enter and leave the campus everyday with no thorough
inspection every day. The only thorough check done is for vehicles such
as supply trucks that have come to drop supplies for shops within the
campus. Taxis are sometimes checked too if they look suspicious.

Often times, vehicles such as taxis come into conflict with students. A
number of students have been mistreated by taxi drivers for numerous
reasons and there haven’t been any repercussions taken by the school to
hold these drivers accountable until now. Nowadays the taxis that pick
up people from the school need to show a stamp on their windscreen that
shows that they abide by the rules and regulations of the school as well
as agreeing to treat their customers justly and fairly without being
rude or cheating them. However, this stamp is only given to those
vehicles around the ABAC area and so it is difficult to spot the few
taxis that come from elsewhere as not all people stay in the Bangna
area.

Another case is having bad drivers that are likely to endanger students
and other people within the university from reckless driving. This
obviously would put peoples’ lives at risk and the university must come
up with a way to combat that particular problem

Therefore; the main problem is that when vehicles are blacklisted, there
only exists a manual way of logging in the prohibited vehicles which is
by writing the plate number and car model in a log book and flagging it
as blacklisted. However, with this method, there is no efficient way to
track every vehicle that enters the campus premises. A vehicle might
also be able to get away before the guard has a chance to log them in.
Sometimes guards might actually forget that a car has been blacklisted
and allow it inside the campus.

Problem Description

Reliance on the naked eye:

Having the security officials use their own naked eyes to track
vehicles’ plate numbers is extremely difficult and almost impossible
given that hundreds of cars pass through the taxi point in a day.
Therefore, it would be difficult to spot and log any blacklisted or
banned vehicles that enter the campus especially if they can hide in the
congestion at the checkpoints. It would also be difficult to spot
multiple vehicles at a single time.

Vehicle checkpoints

One alternative solution that was brought up was to implement a vehicle
checkpoint. This is where the campus security officials would check and
inspect all vehicles that enter the campus. If the guard is satisfied
and the inspection is a success, they will allow the vehicle to enter.
This solution brings about a number of problems with the key one being
congestion. Traffic jams will rise significantly and students wouldn’t
be able to make it to the university on time at peak periods. This
method will also result in students and teachers losing the morale and
drive of going to school as they wouldn’t want to be inspected on a
regular basis. This method would ultimately be a waste of time and
resources.

Solution

We have decided to develop a license recognition system whereby vehicle
licence plates are scanned and read and analyzed by our ssyem to check
if the vehicles are allowed inside the campus or not. Our proposed
system will capture the plate number as well as the make and model of
the vehivle, run it through the database and see whether the vehicle has
been flagged or not. If it has, the authorities will be alerted on the
make and model of the car so as to investigate and question the driver.

Project Scope

Location

We have decided to limit our system implementation to the university’s
campus only, in particular ABAC Bangna Campus. This is because this is
the campus that consists of the most students therefore having more
vehicles entering and leaving the premises.

Plate Number Retrieval

Using a well position CCTV (Closed Circuit TV) camera at the taxi stand,
the system recognizes the plate number and stores it as an image.

Processing

The image is then analyzed using OpenALPR libraries to determine what
plate numbers the image entails. By specifying the number, the make and
model of the car is returned to the user as well as the number itself to
show the accuracy of the reading.

Alerts are only enabled to notify the security officials of a car that
has been blacklisted before by the system. The officials are asked to
investigate this vehicle as well as its driver.

Statistics

The proposed system will also deliver some statistics. These will vary
from the type of cars to pass through the checkpoint at a given time, to
how many taxis entered the campus. This data will be used for analysis
by the parties involved with the system.

Process Flowchart

[]

Timeline

14 January 2019 - 8 February 2019

- First Meeting (14 January 2019): We met with our Advisor, Mr.
  Chayapol, to discuss what needs to be done about the project. We
  talked about similar types of systems and how they can be implemented
  within the campus. We also tested out a demo system that could read
  the plate numbers which we could use as a guide. (Version 1)

- During this time, we also researched more about license recognition
  software.

23 March 2019

- We tried to install OpenALPR using Docker on our machines. This would
  give us access to the OpenALPR libraries in which the plate numbers
  can be read from an image file as well as a video file.

27 March 2019

- We made a private Git repository in which we stored all our code.

6 April 2019:

- Database development

11 April 2019

- Second meeting: After implementing MySQL database using the opensource
  code from the OpenALPR project we presented our progress to our
  advisor. We used bindings for Python since we were familiar with it.
  (Version 2)

12 April 2019

- Implementation of ElectonJS in order to create the system’s UI using
  HTML, CSS and JavaScript (Version 3)

13 April 2019 – 20 April 2019

- Due to MySQL not handling real-time data and needing to refresh the
  page multiple times we changed the database to be on Firebase.
  Firebase is cloud based document store that is suitable for real time
  applications whereas MySQL is just mostly used for relational data and
  transactions. We also stopped using PHP as it was not compatible with
  ElectronJS

21 April 2019 – 6 May 2019

Implementation using a webcam: we implemented our system using a webcam
at the taxi point in front of MSM. (Version 4)

- 29 May 2019: Report submission

- 4 June 2019: Final Presentation

System Overview

The system uses OpenALPR open source library.

The user will be greeted with a UI which is written in HTML and CSS.
When the system is executed, it begins opening a new window to view what
is being displayed on the camera (webcam or external USB camera). It
then begins detecting license plates by their confidence(accuracy) and
timestamp which is then uploaded into the firebase real-time database.

The admin of the app can add INVALID plates that needs to be alerted if
the system has recognized it, so there is a check done before the data
has been uploaded to the firebase database. If the number plate is and
INVALID plate, the data is uploaded in the alert table in firebase.
Another feature where the image of the invalid license plate is captured
and uploaded into firebase storage. The app is then able to retrieve all
the data from firebase and display it to the user in real-time.

Powered By:

[][]

[]

[]

Previous Versions of The App

Version 1

The app first started out as an online webpage where only a picture of a
vehicle is uploaded and sent to the OpenALPR API which fetches data
about the vehicle.

The problems were that the free version of using API has a limited
number of use which was around 2000 credits where one image being 1
credit.

Version 2

The OpenALPR opensource library written in C++ which had bindings in
many other language was used instead. We used python since we are very
familiar with the language and its simple and pleasing looking code.
OpenCV is used for video processing which integrates seamlessly with
python.

Eel Python library was used to to create a simple GUI with HTML and CSS.
Eel was a good option since it would provide a bridge with python and
all its capabilities.

The database used at the time was MySQL which we were familiar with.

The problems faced were:

- The fact that the database was no up to par with what the app
  demanded.

- We used PHP for communicating with the database but Eel did not
  support PHP.

Version 3

This is where the switch to ElectronJS was made. ElectronJS is able to
create simple and modern looking GUI using just plain HTML and CSS.
Since ElectronJS is made with NodeJS, a python-shell could be used to
run python scripts from NodeJS.

The problem was still the database. To be able to obtain data in
real-time to the user proved to be difficult. Refreshing the app to
update the data was not the road to go with.

Version 4 (Current Version)

This is where we chose firebase. Firebase had real-time database
capabilities and the integration was simple which was perfect for our
app.

UI of the App

[]

The user is greeted with this UI.

A total number plate table which tracks the number of plates detected by
the system and an alert table which keeps track of invalid plates along
with their picture.

System Development

UI

[]The UI is just plain HTML and CSS.

Processing

[]Using the OpenALPR open source python binding, OpenCV is used when
reading the webcam and calling the OpenALPR for character recognition.

As OpenCV scans through each frame, the results obtained from ALPR() are
checked if the license plate is in the INVALID.

INVALID is just an array that stores the known license plates that are
not allowed. OR we could just keep a VALID array to keep registered
vehicles and if the system detects other license plate, it will be
alerted. We chose to do it this way for now.

[]

­If invalid, the number plate is added to the alert table in the
database.

[]For the image, the frame is written onto a temporary file in the app
with the file name as its invalid license plate, that image is then
uploaded to the firebase storage as seen in the code below.

The image is then deleted from the temporary after being uploaded to the
database to free space the app.

We used python to upload data to firebase since firebase integrates well
with python and it was logical to upload the data right after OpenCV
processes each frame.

Database Retrieval

For retrieving from the database to be displayed in the app, we used
Javascript to communicate and handle the database.

[]My firebase storage looks like this.

The storage stores the image with its license plate as the name of the
image as mentioned earlier.

The Realtime database looks like this.

[]

Two different tables are maintained for alert and total.

JavaScript Implementation.

Getting data from the result table from firebase

[]

A neat trick to upload data into a HTML table where data can be
dynamically added or deleted is to write the HTML code itself in
JavaScript and store it into a variable in this case ‘content’.

Then jQuery can select the ID from HTML to add data retrieved into it.

Similar case for Alert table although we have to handle firebase storage
to upload images.

Takes a bit more lines of code.

[]

[]In the JavaScript side we also have a notification feature when data
is added into the alert table.

The doNotify() function gets called when a new data is added into the
alert table. The input parameter row is just the name of the license
plate to be displayed on the notification.

[]

Running

As seen in the UI, the run button executes a python script to run the
ALPR. The bridge to make this connection from HTML is using python-shell
from Nodejs in Electron.

[]

Python-shell is a simple way to run python scripts from Nodejs.

Live Camera implementation

For the processing in live camera, we implemented a simple to let the
system know if the car in front of the camera is idle.

[]

We used a variable ‘old’ to keep track of the previous license plate so
the system to upload it to the database only if there in a new license
plate recognized.

This prevents letting the system upload all the data into the database
making duplicates.

[]

We have also used frame skip to increase the processing time. Which is
helpful for a slower computer to process at a reasonable speed.

Testing Using video file as source.

TEST RESULTS FROM FINAL.MP4

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Image                    ALPR Result Real Truth    
  ------------------------ ----------- ------------- ----------------------
  []                       ก6591       1มก6591       ❌❌✅✅✅✅

  []                       6ก6070      6กฐ6070       ✅✅❌✅✅✅✅

  []                       3ก9953      3กษ9953       ✅✅❌✅✅✅✅

  []                       กน1114      กม1114        ✅✅✅✅✅✅

  []                       กม4531      กม4531        ✅✅✅✅✅✅

  []                       ธ824        ษธ824         ❌✅✅✅✅

  []                       กฌ8028      5กฌ8028       ❌✅✅✅✅✅✅

  []                       ศฏ4545      ศฏ4545        ✅✅✅✅✅✅
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Database after running video file

[]

[]

Thai character displayed in notification

[]

Why Electron?

- Can develop cross-platform applications using existing web based
  technologies.

- Reusability plays a great factor where the same code based can be used
  for the web and desktop applications – “code once, distribute
  everywhere”.

- Electron-packager which packages the files to be distributed. Builds
  like MacOS, Windows, Linux.

- Integration with python is simple and since most of our video
  processing is done is python, this was a major factor as to why we
  chose Electron.

Why Firebase?

- A cloud storage which is basically a giant JSON object.

- We chose firebase mainly for its real-time capabilities which is
  essential for our application.

- The integration was simple with various other languages like python
  and JavaScript.

- Cross platform capability.

- Firebase storage for files and images.

System Constraints

Camera

The resolution of the camera will ultimately decide the output of the
program, its ability to detect with accuracy. Many other variables
include the exposure, white-balance for image pre processing and the
zoom on the camera, the angle at which the camera is placed is also a
major factor in determining the success rate of recognition by the
system.

The ROI(region of interest) which is the license plate should have
enough pixels. However, increasing the number of pixels and resolution
will also increase the processing time.

CPU and Graphics

The accuracy of the system will also depend on the CPU and the graphics
to be able to handle fast processing times and accuracy.

Difficulties Encountered

Training OCR

Training the OCR engine takes a lot of samples images of license plates
and time needed to do it manually.

[]

Thai characters are extracted from actual license plates using a utility
in openalpr called classifychars. The character tiles are then saved and
used in the second part of the training process.

Trained data of these characters can then be created using a script
train.py provided by openalpr to train new countries.

The accuracy of the OCR will depend on the training and the number of
good samples photos that is used.

Calibration Of Camera

[]Camera calibration helps in detecting when the camera is placed in a
fixed position to the license plate at an angle.

[]

After calibration the license plate is much more clearer.

Conclusion

We would like to thank the faculty and specially our project Advisor Mr.
Chayapol for all the help and guidance that he has given us over the
course of this project. We were able to understand more about how
systems like these are implemented in Realtime and how much work and
dedication is needed to produce a final product that works.

It was a great experience for us to learn so many new languages and our
knowledge on video processing has been broadened with the use of OpenCV.
We have realized how important video surveillance is in this modern era
and how it can be used in many different ways to create a better
society.

Thank you for providing us with this opportunity.

We would also like to thank Dr. Paitoon and Dr. Benjawan for being our
committee members.

References

- http://doc.openalpr.com

- https://github.com/openalpr/openalpr

- https://qiita.com/m-sakano/items/34b97322827f7022b31e

- https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract/issues/296

- https://gist.github.com/jkjung-avt/790a1410b91c170187f8dbdb8cc698c8

- https://github.com/openalpr/openalpr/issues/660

- https://blog.devcenter.co/developing-a-license-plate-recognition-system-with-machine-learning-in-python-787833569ccd
