[Image result for abac logo]

Department of Computer Science

Vincent Mary School of Science and Technology

CS 3200 Senior Project 1

AI Play Game

Project Advisor: A. Chayapol Moemeng

Project Committee: A. Kwankamol Nongpong

Asst. Prof. Dr. Dobri Batovski

Submitted By:

5918131 Fengbo Zhou

17^(rd) Dec. 2019

AI Play Games

Department of Computer Science

Vincent Mary School of Science and Technology

CS 3200 Senior Project 1

Project Title: AI play games

By: 5918131 Fengbo Zhou

Project Advisor: A. Chayapol Moemeng

Academic Year: 1/2019

The Senior Project committees of the Department of Computer Science,
Vincent Mary School of Science and Technology, Assumption University had
approved this Senior Project. The Senior Project I is submitted in
partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Bachelor of
Science in Computer Science.

Approval Committees:

----------------------------------------------

(A. Chayapol Moemeng)

Project Advisor

------------------------------------ ------------------------

(A. Kwankamol Nongpong) (Asst. Prof. Dr. Dobri Batovski)

Committee Member Committee Member

Acknowledgement

I would like to thank A. Chayapol Moemeng for his expert advice and
encouragement throughout this project. Without his help and support, I
would not have been able to complete the project. I am also very
thankful to A. Kwan Nongpong and Asst. Prof. Dr. Dobri Batovski who
willingly accepted to be my committee members for the chosen project and
showed faith in me. Finally, I would like to give my special thanks to
Assumption University of Thailand for providing enough knowledge and
skills that made this project possible.

Abstract

This project focuses on creating an AI that can play arcade games. Just
like how DeepBlue played chess, this project is about creating an AI
that can play console games by itself and get a good score. There are
many related works done by others, such as Mario bot which is a bot that
can play classic Mario games on it own and pass the stages. This project
does not stipulate which game can be used, so there are several options
such as Google Chrome dinosaur game and battle city etc. But dinosaur
game is too easy to be solved because the dinosaur is moving all the
time so the available action is only two, jump or down to avoid
obstacles, as for battle city, the problem is too complicated to be
solved for a starter’s project. So finally Circus Charlie was chosen as
this project.

Table of Contents

Table of Figures 7

1.Introduction 8

2.Platform introduction 10

3.Statements of the problems: 12

4.Objectives 14

5.Related work 16

5.1 MarI/O 16

5.2 Chrome Dinosaur Game 20

6.Scope of the project 23

7.Methodology 25

7.1 Preprocessing 25

7.2 Data Preparation 28

7.3 Leaning Model 33

7.4 Adjustments 38

8.Limitation 40

9. Progress 41

10. Conclusion 45

11. References 47

Table of Figures

Figure 1 screenshot of the game 9

Figure 2 screenshot of the final stage 10

Figure 3 FCEUX platform 12

Figure 4 Example of AI play game 20

Figure 5 Chrome dinosaur game 23

Figure 6 positions of loop and cup 27

Figure 7 loops and its hook 28

Figure 8 Charlie stop standing at the left corner 28

Figure 9 multiple loops in the frame at the same time 32

Figure 10 in 300000 cases how should Charlie react 33

Figure 11 in 300000 what is the position of cup and loop 33

Figure 12 The neural network model 36

Figure 13 Examples of how to convert pre-stored data into useable date
in neural network. 36

Figure 14 Examples of testing if the model is correctly predicting
action. 37

Figure 15 action space written by other 37

Figure 16 reading the position and transform it 37

Figure 17 making prediction according to the input 38

Figure 18 adjusting the moving distance 40

Figure 19 Sample data 43

Figure 20 Code to generate the data 43

Figure 21 Model 1 summary 44

Figure 22 Performace of the first model 44

Figure 23 Last model 45

Figure 24 Performance for last model 45

1.Introduction

AI play games is mainly focusing on training a bot to play game, that is
it can deal with any problem encounter in the game and solve it. This
requires teaching it how to play or telling it some basic rules and let
itself learn how to play the game. Just like AlphaGo, it can beat top
players because of it was trained trillion times of how to play, so it
encounter most of the situation and can think ahead of how to solve it
at each step. In Circus Charlie, The game is about controlling Charlie
and let is pass all the obstacles such as loops and cups and reach the
final stages. In this case, The best way to do it is to teach it how to
act when it faces obstacles, when should it jump, forward or move back.
AI play games is quite a challenging task because you firstly need to
know how to play the games and then design a good training step for the
bot, and it requires a lot of time to adjust the process in order to
make it perfect enough to pass the stages.

As shown in figure 1, The game is about controlling Charlie to pass
those obstacles and keep moving forwards until it reaches the final
stage as shown in figure 2.

[]

screenshot of the game

[]

screenshot of the final stage

2.Platform introduction

The platform that is used to load this game is called FCEUX as shown in
figure 3, it is a Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) , Famicom ,
Famicom Disk System (FDS), and Dendy emulator, it supports NTSC
(USA/JPN), PAL (European), and NTSC_PAL hybrid modes. It supports both
Windows and SDL versions for cross compatibility.

The FCEUX concept is that of an “all in one” emulator that offers
accurate emulation and the best options for both casual play and a
variety of more advanced emulator functions. For professional users,
FCEUX offers tool for debugging, rom-hacking, map making, Tool-assisted
movies and Lua scripting.

Above all are introductions from (Introduction of the simulator, n.d.).

Basically FCEUX is a emulator that can load specific NES rom such as
Mario and Circus Charlie so that it can be run on PC instead of gaming
consoles. What’s more, it provides advanced manipulation such as
debugging and hacking, that is helpful for doing this project, because
the bot needs to play the game so it has to be able to communicate with
the console.

[]

FCEUX platform

3.Statements of the problems:

After playing around with the game for several days, the following
problems are found that are important and need to be solved in order to
complete the project:

1)  A method to send instruction to the emulator

  In order to let the bot control Charlie and play, whatever decision
  the bot made, it has to be sent into the emulator so that the game can
  be played, and because of FCUES is different from other emulator, it
  does not provide any API for such purpose, so it is quite challenging
  to send instruction to the emulator.

2)  Difficulty in reading the input from console

  Apart from sending instruction to the emulator, reading the current
  game status from the emulator is also challenging. There are project
  on Github such as Mario Bot, they are reading the hex code from the
  emulator as the gaming status, but it is not suitable for this starter
  project because of the complexity, so a simple and better way to read
  the game frame from the emulator must be found.

3)  How to train the bot

  Training the bot efficiently is not a easy task. There are two types
  of obstacles, cups and loops, the cup’s position is fixed while the
  loop will keep forwarding toward Charlie. Charlie has five actions,
  moving forward, jump right, jump left, moving back and do nothing. The
  actions space are large, so in which circumstance should Charlie does
  which action, it is unachievable via if-else statement because of the
  possibility are huge, and even using machine learning, it is quite a
  difficult task.

4)  How to combine different pieces

  Above all, this project is divided into several pieces, reading the
  input, training the bot and sending actions back. And each step may
  use different platforms, or different languages, making them
  compatible together is major task, so it is better to find a way that
  can solve these problems using single platform and language.

4.Objectives 

The main objective of this project is to design an AI to play Circus
Charlie, in this case is to design an AI to play Circus Charlie and pass
the first stage without touching any obstacles at all. Following are the
objectives of this task:

1)  To control the game

  In order to design an AI to play Circus Charlie, firstly a program
  must be created so that it is able to control Charlie to move around
  in the game, such as moving forward or jump, it is not needed to be AI
  yet, but all the functionality have to be satisfied.

2)  Read the current frame from the game

  The AI need to act according to current state of the game, so reading
  current state from the game is also important, otherwise the AI can
  not react in time or it can not get the useful and correct
  information, then it can not make correct decision hence it can not
  pass the stage.

3)  Training the bot

  Finding a correct methodology to train the bot efficiently and
  correctly is major objective of this project. Because this method is
  the “brain” of the bot. whether or not it can pass the stage and
  played like human depends on how it is trained.

5.Related work

5.1 MarI/O

There are many projects of AI play games on Github. MarI/O was chosen to
be analyzed here. It is project that creates an AI to play Super Mario
World. The video about how to play the game can be found at this site “
(How to play Mario Game, n.d.)”. Figure 4 shows an example of how it
played. The source code can be found at (Source code of Mario AI, n.d.).

The author of this project used BizHawk emulator which is for advanced
user. It is more complicated than FCEUX, but it provides more
flexibility.

The author used Lua to develop this AI. It involves a lot of computer
architecture’s part, because it has a lot of binary Code programs.

1)  Reading the input.

Because of the features of this emulator, the author is able to extract
the game state from the game directly in Binary format. And apparently
the author is familiar with Super Mario World game, because in the
program, most of them are coded according to how those objects are
stored in the Game. Such as author knows how to read the Mario’s
position from the emulator and program it directly. Indeed it can
provide a lot convenience if you are familiar with Arcade Game
programing. But for starter, it is quite difficult.

2)  Sending the action

Because of author is using Lua which can communicate with the emulator
directly, so the actions that the bot made can be send to emulator
easily and efficiently using some simple code. Comparing with this
project, it is different, because FCEUX have Lua script but the neural
network this project using is based on python, So addition work need to
be done in order to send the result back to the emulator. There is a
program that can do so by establishing a server-client with Lua script
that on FCEUX side and then connecting with it using python .

3)  Training the bot

Neural network is used to train the bot to play Mario Game, more
specifically it is called NeuroEvolution of Augmenting Topologies
(NEAT), the paper can be found at (NEAT paper, n.d.). It is a
self-learning neural network. Firstly the AI make the predictions and
see if it can get higher fitness score, if it can’t, then it will start
to regeneration by using generic methods to generate the new species. By
doing so the neural network is evolving and hopefully at last it can
find the best generation to play the Mario World Game.

Overall, the author used Lua Language which can communicate with
emulator directly provides a lot convenience. As shown in figure 4, the
bot read the state of the current game, which includes the position of
Mario and how far has Mario moved. Then it makes decision about how
should Mario move next, and it will detect the state again, knowing
whether or not Mario has move further, which decide how many score the
fitness is, and then make improvement next run. It can be made this way
because of the state of the game is fixed. That means, if after the game
started, three steps away, there is an obstacle, it will always be. So
if at two steps away, Mario tried move left or jump or whatever made it
not pass that obstacles, it will remember, and make improvements next
time. Because of this feature, this methodology is not suitable in
Circus Charlie. Because of the obstacles are appear at random time and
it will keep moving if Charlie does nothing.

  []

Example of AI play game

5.2 Chrome Dinosaur Game

Another example is Google Chrome dinosaur game. There is a completed
version available on Github at (Dinosaur Game source code, n.d.).

Introduction

As shown in Figure 5, the Dinosaur game is simple, the dinosaur will
keep moving forward. And as it goes further, the speed it moves will
increase, it has only one action that is jump. The objective is to get
as higher mark as possible.

Methodology

As found in the source code, the work is divided into three parts.
Firstly training the model, secondly capture the game state and feed it
into the model and lastly feed the action that made by the model back
into the game.

For the training model part, the Recurrent Neural network was used,
firstly a lot of screenshot of the game were captured and stored as
training set, then OpenCV is used to read the image of the game state,
after that Keras is used to train the RNN model and stored the trained
model.

For the Main part. The pre-trained Model is loaded into the main
program, and the game state is captured every 1/60 second, and it is fed
into the pre-trained model, after that the model will predict whether or
not should the dinosaur jump.

Lastly the Action is sent back into chrome to make the dinosaur to move.

For this Dinosaur AI, it is quite similar with the project. And after
reading several related works, I found it is easier to do it in this
way, dividing the project into three parts, and finish them accordingly,
so that they will not affect each other. But in this way, it requires a
lot of effort, because a lot of images are needed to be captured and
labeled with correct action in order to make the model perfectly. But in
Circus Charlie project, it is not feasible. Because there are many
different conditions and the obstacles are appeared at random. What’s
more, Charlie has five different actions it can make. Labeling all of
the pictures requires a lot of time. Like in this dinosaur Game the
author captured almost 600 images and labeled them while the dinosaur
only has two actions which is jump or not. If in Charlie project, the
same methodology is used, it would be roughly 5000 images are needed to
be captured and recorded with correct label, it is very costly and not
worth doing. But this Dinosaur Project help this project a lot.

[]

6.Scope of the project 

There are three major tasks involved in this program:

1)  Reading the state of the game

2)  Making decisions upon the state

3)  Sending back the action to the game

These three tasks are needed to be achieved in turn and permanently and
in loop as long as Charlie reaches the final stage or it fails.

Reading the state of the game.

Using screenshot to capture the game frame at each time, and analysis
the features that exist in the picture to extract the useful data as the
input for the bot.

Making decision upon the state

A neural network needs to be trained to make correct decision base on
the input the bot might get while it plays the game.

Sending back the action to the game

A python to lua script is needed to send the correspond action back to
the emulator so the game can continue.

Above all, doing this project is because of the complexity of play NES
game is suitable for starter. Although there are many other NES games
out there such as Battle city, their complexity is too high to be solved
for starter. But for Circus Charlie, it is easy to solved but also with
some challenges, it is harder than Dinosaur games as stated before but
easier than batter city.

7.Methodology 

7.1 Preprocessing

For the preprocessing part, OpenCV’s template matching and Pillow (an
API for capture screen) are being used. Firstly the image of the game
frame is captured by using Pillow, and then the API of OpenCV is used to
match the entire game frame with the loop and cup’s image in order to
obtain their distance from Charlie as shown in figure 5, in order to do
so, the image of the loop and cup need to be stored in advance.

In the first time, the single loop is used as the object, but because
it’s very big, so there are some mistakes while matching it with the
game frame, that is, sometimes it can’t recognize the loop even though
the matching threshold is set very low. However there is a hook which is
special in the entire game as shown in figure 6, and it can be used to
replace the hook and the accuracy of finding it using template matching
is fairly high, so it is used instead of the original loop.

After there is no problem recognize the loop, another problem arises,
that is, it can’t distinguish between the normal loop and the special
loop (which is shorter than normal loop and has a money sack, if Charlie
jump over it, he will get an extra reward) by using only the hook to
identify the loop’s position, But this can be solved later on in data
processing part.

At this far, the location of the loop and cup are obtained, but there is
another problem need to be dealt with, right now Charlie’s position is
not acquired because it is always fixed in the left most position, but
once it approach the destination, this is no longer the case, Charlie’s
position gets changed and moved right as shown in Figure 7, so the
Charlie’s position is also needed to be obtained, but it can be used
only when Charlie is reaching the final destination, before that, the
raw value can be used replace Charlie’s position for simplicity and
performance.

[] []

positions of loop and cup

  [] []

loops and its hook

[]

Charlie stop standing at the left corner

7.2 Data Preparation 

After obtain the position of the obstacles from the game frame, some
extra processing are needed in order to get the desired input.

Firstly, the position of the obstacles which are cups and loops are
used, they are the distance between these obstacles and the left most
side of the game frame, and the Charlie’s potion which uses the same
concept once it reaches the last frame, before that it is a raw value.

Three inputs are needed to train the neural network, first one is the
distance between Charlie and loop, another one is the distance between
Charlie and cup, and the last one is whether or not the current loop is
a special loop.

But there is a problem, if there are multiple loops at the same time in
the frame. then it would be confused for the program to decided which
loop’s position should be used to calculate the distance as shown in
figure 8, So additional steps are needed to remove this ambiguity, in
order to do so, the loop and cup that passed by Charlie will be removed,
and for the loops and cups in the game frame, only the first loop and
first cup will be used to calculate the distance, then all of the three
inputs are collected.

Since the supervised learning is being used, Charlie need to be guided
how to decide what to do based on those input he will get. First of all,
how people would play the game are observed and analyzed, after that the
measurement of which distance should Charlie jump over the cup or loop
are being recorded. And how should Charlie do if both the loop and cup
are appeared in the scene are analyzed. And what should he do if the
special loops appeared. And which plays are the safest.

Based on above observation, the following steps are made to build the
corresponding training data.

First of all, when only the cup or the loop appears. Then there are
three cases, which are, if the distance is fall into the range which is
close enough to Charlie, it should jump over it. If it behind too much
of the range, it should move right, and if it is ahead of this range too
much, it should move back. This will suit both the case only loop or cup
appears, but the range for them is different. This works for the special
loop as well.

Another case is that if the cup is within the range that Charlie can
jump. But there is also a loop in the frame which is either behind the
cup or ahead of the cup. then it will be divided into four cases.
Firstly. The loop is behind of cup, but it is not too far away from the
cup. Then Charlie should wait the loop coming, and when they are
overlapping, Charlie should jump over it. Secondly, if the loop is
behind of the cup too much, then Charlie should jump over the cup
directly, since it can still have enough time to make decision to deal
with the loop. Thirdly, the loop is overlapping with the cup, Charlie
should jump over it as stated before. Lastly. If the loop is ahead of
the cup, then if Charlie jump over it, it will pass if Charlie is lucky,
but it will touch the cup sometimes, so for playing safely, Charlie
should move back in this case.

As the same, if the loop is in range (which Charlie could jump over it
if there is only a loop occurs), and there is also a cup in the scene,
since the cup’s position is fixed. There aren’t too much cases for this
except two. First of all, if the cup is too far away from the loop, then
Charlie can certainly jump over the loop and still have time to make
decision for the next coming cup. But if the cup’s position is not too
far away, if Charlie choose to jump over the loop, it may touch the cup
and dies. The better way is to move back and wait for there is enough
distance between the loop and cup, and then jump over the loop.

Lastly, how should Charlie deals with the special loop. There are four
cases. If only the loop occurs, it jumps over it based on the first
three cases. If it appears after the cup, Charlie can wait it passed and
then jump over the cup. Since even though it may be overlapping, Charlie
won’t be able to jump over it because the bottom line of the special
loop is too high, so if Charlie get close enough to the special loop,
and it jumps, it will die. So most of the time Charlie should wait for
this loop get passed.

After analyzed the behavior of how should Charlie acts. The data which
are randomly generated according to those behavior, and they are stored
into two separate files as shown in figure 9 and 10, so the size of the
data can be adjusted later on if Charlie doesn’t perform well or the
model’s accuracy is not good enough.

[]

[]

[]

7.3 Leaning Model

As shown in Figure 11 and 12, this is the final version of the model
which makes Charlie passed the stage 1. The Keras API (which is built on
top of TensorFlow) is used, As shown in the Figures, there are six
hidden layers, and most of them contain 10 neurons. For the first layer,
it doesn’t necessarily need to be 300 neurons, but after many
experiments, this could result in the most optimized model based on the
existing resources. Maybe It because those two input parameters contain
too many discrete values, so it’s better to use many neurons in the
first layer to convert them.

Apart from hidden layer. There are three input nodes, which are the
distance between loop and Charlie, distance between Charlie and cup, and
whether or not the loop is a special loop. For the first two nodes. Its
value is the distance if the loop or cup exists in the scene, or its
4910 if it does not exist. And for the last one, its value is either 1
or 0 indicates if it’s a special loop.

As for the output layer. It contains four output nodes. Which indicate
the probability for each action Charlie should take. The first one is to
jump right, and the second one is to move right, the third one is to
move back and last one is to do nothing.

And for the optimizer Adam is used, for the loss function, “binary cross
entropy” is used. “categorical cross entropy” is also being used, but it
didn’t work well.

Lastly a prediction is made to see if it performs well and the summary
is prinited for this model and saved. If it didn’t go well, it can be
adjusted accordingly as shown in figure 13.

For the control part. The distance from the frame are obtained and
stored using the methods mentioned above as shown in Figure 15, then it
is fed into the model which is trained already and loaded in the
beginning of the program as shown in Figure 16. And then the probability
for each actions that Charlie may take upon the frame the program
captured are obtainedthat. And then it will choose the action that with
the highest probability. And send it to the simulator. The joypad API
shown above is written by others as shown in Figure 14, The purpose of
this program is to connect the code with the emultor. So after expected
action is obtained. The API is used to send the action Charlie should
take to the emulator. and then repeat this whole process again and again
until Charlie passes stage 1.

[]

[]

[]

Examples of testing if the model is correctly predicting action.

[]

[]

[]

7.4 Adjustments

As shown in Figure 17, because of the action is only move right or left
one pixel away, Charlie would perform poorly because the game has a time
limit, so each time the action is obtained, it is boosted up to 50
pixels according to the distance between Charlie and the obstacles. And
it is also helpful for Charlie to make some good moves, assume that a
cup is behind the loop but not too far away, because the loop is keep
moving, if Chalie only a few pixels back, then it takes a lot of time to
move back and maybe it will never get the chance to jump and stuck at
moving back forever, but with the boost of moving, Charlie may move back
a huge step, and slowly move right then jump over the loop and jump over
the cup consecutively, thus it can save a lot of time.

[]

8.Limitation

Because the preprocessing part requires a lot of time, such as capturing
the picture from desktop, analyzing the features in the picture
(template matching). The actual performance is not extremely good, it
can not play the game in real time such as 60 frames per second as a
normal human could. However because of the emulator platform and python
is used in this project, this limitation can not be avoided. Even though
there is another way such as training the neural network using the
entire game frame. It will cost a lot of time on training part, and in
order to do so requires a lot of resources. And it is very hard to train
a neural network play the game depends on game frame only without any
extracted features.

9. Progress

As stated before, The training data (part of them as shown in Figure 19)
are fed into the neural network to train a working model first. They are
generated by the code which shown in Figure 20. The data are stored in
two separate files named x.in and y.in, which contains firstly the how
far the cup is from Charlie secondly how far is the loop from Charlie,
if there is no loop or cup, its distance is represented with 4810, and
the corresponding y.in file will contains the correct action for those
specific distances. As shown in Figure 21, this is a summary of the
model, in the first generation, a simple neural network is used, as
shown in Figure 22, some small dataset are generated for testing usage,
using KERAS.Evalute method to test the accuracy, the performance is
quite pool, although the accuracy is around 90.92 %, only 10 examples of
each situations are chosen to test, that means if there is an obstacle
10 pixels away, there is a chance Charlie will make wrong decision at
the 9^(th) pixel, which it should jump over the obstacle, but it chooses
to go right. So it is not acceptable.

After tuning the parameters and finding more suitable dataset for the
neural network, and after several trials, a better model was found out
as shown in Figure 23. There are approximately 3000 parameters to train,
and hopefully the performance is quite good, it reaches 97.72 % as shown
in Figure 24, therefore Charlie is able to pass the stage 1 with a very
high chance.

[]

  Sample data

[]

Code to generate the data

[]

Model 1 summary

[]

Performace of the first model

[]

Last model

[]

Performance for last model

10. Conclusion

Overall the AI is able to control Charlie to move around properly and
pass the stage 1. Although there are small chances that Charlie will
fail to pass stage 1 using only 1 chance, but this rarely happens, and
it happens mostly because of it is ran on a slow and outdated CPU. The
whole process takes time, starting from reading the game frame from the
simulator, preprocessing the game frame, feed into the neural network,
and sending the decision back to the simulator, in these processes,
preprocessing t he game frame consumes most of the computing power,
hence running it on a slow PC would affect the performance, because when
the AI receives the game frame and trying to figure out what the correct
move is, it takes time, and in the same time, Charlie is still moving,
the game does not pause, so maybe Charlie move forward several pixels,
after that it receives the actions it should perform before it makes
that move. An example would be, assuming Charlie is 6 pixels away from
the loop, and at this distance Charlie should jump right, but when it
receives the action that produced by the AI, it may move forward 2
pixels, the AI is making the correct prediction, but the situation is
Charlie is no longer at that state, maybe when Charlie is 4 pixels away
from the loop, the correct move should be jump left. This problem can
not be fixed by improving the performance of the model.

There are some methods to improve the overall performance of the AI. One
would be running this program on a faster enough machine, trying to
reduce the time of making the predictions hence Charlie is able to make
the correct action in time. Another way is to train a neural network
directly with the game frame, this will increase the training time and
the training data is hard to collect, but it can also reduce the time of
making the prediction, because once the model is trained, all the AI
needs to do is read the game frame and feed it into the neural network.

Overall, the AI is able to pass the stage 1 within an acceptable amount
of runs, there are some ways to improve it as stated above, it can be
implemented in later project.

11. References

Dinosaur Game source code. (n.d.). Retrieved from
https://github.com/jg-fisher/dinoAI

How to play Mario Game. (n.d.). Retrieved from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qv6UVOQ0F44&t=37s

Introduction of the simulator. (n.d.). Retrieved from
http://www.fceux.com/web/home.html

NEAT paper. (n.d.). Retrieved from
http://nn.cs.utexas.edu/downloads/papers/stanley.ec02.pdf

NEAT PAPER. (n.d.). Retrieved from
http://nn.cs.utexas.edu/downloads/papers/stanley.ec02.pdf.

Source code of Mario AI. (n.d.). Retrieved from
https://pastebin.com/ZZmSNaHX
