[page1image37495120]

ASSUMPTION UNIVERSITY

Vincent Mary School of Science and Technology

IT 4291 SENIOR PROJECT I FINAL REPORT

Dental Management System

Project Advisor: Asst.Prof. Dr. Adtha Lawanna

Project Committee: Asst.Prof. Titida Nochai

  Asst.Prof. Dr. Benjawan Srisura

SUBMITTED BY:

Mr. Tanakorn Navanugraha 6025106
Mr. Rajbir Singh 6015184

Semester 1/2020

______________________________________________________________

Vincent Mary School of Science and Technology

Department of Information Technology

Department of Computer Science

Senior Project Final Approval

_____________________________________________________________

Project Title: Dental Management System

By: Tanakorn Navanugraha 6025106

  Rajbir Singh 6015184

Project Advisor: Asst.Prof. Dr. Adtha Lawanna

Academic Year: 1/2020

_____________________________________________________________

The Senior Project committees of the Department of Information
Technology, Department of Computer Science, Vincent Mary School of
Science and Technology, Assumption University had approved this Senior
Project Proposal. The Senior Project Proposal submitted in partial
fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Bachelor of Science in
Information Technology and Bachelor of Science in Computer Science.

Approval Committees:

______________________

(Asst.Prof.Dr. Adtha Lawanna.)

Project Advisor

___________________ ______________________

(Asst.Prof. Dr. Benjawan Srisura) (Asst.Prof. Titida Nochai)

Committee Member Committee Member

Acknowledgement

We would like to express my deep gratitude to Asst.Prof.Dr. Adtha
Lawanna, my supervisors, for their patient guidance, enthusiastic
encouragement and useful critiques of this research work and for her
advice and assistance in keeping my progress on schedule. Our grateful
thanks are also extended our committee members Asst.Prof. Dr. Benjawan
Srisura and Asst.Prof. Titida Nochai, without whose support we would not
have been able to complete the project.

Secondly, we would like to express our special gratitude toward our
friends and family for their support and constant encouragement.

Finally, our thank and appreciations go to everyone who have been a part
of developing the project with us.

Mr. Tanakorn Navanugraha

Mr. Rajbir Singh

Table of Contents

Topics Page

1.  Introduction 8

2.  Case study 8

    1.  Case study 1: Changnoi Clinic 10

    2.  Case study 2: Pattaya International Dental Center 17

    3.  Case study 3: BDMS Wellness Clinic 27

3.  Statement of problem 38

4.  User requirements 40

5.  Objectives of the project 42

6.  Scope of the project 43

7.  Limitation of the project 45

8.  Cost and benefits 46

    1.  Cost of proposed system 46

    2.  Benefits of proposed system 48

9.  Methodology 49

10. Project management 50

11. Logical design of the proposed system 51

    1.  Data Flow Diagram 51

    2.  Logic modelling 59

    3.  Entity Relationship Diagram 61

    4.  Data Dictionary 62

12. Detailed Design of the System 64

13. User Interface Manual 65

14. Reference 78

List of Tables

Table Page

Table 1: Cost of hardware and software 46

Table 2: Cost of system implementation 47

Table 3: Cost of developer 47

Table 4: Data dictionary for dentist 62

Table 5: Data dictionary for patient 62

Table 5: Data dictionary for admin 63

Table 7: Data dictionary for appointment 63

List of Figures

Figure Page

Figure 1: ChangNoi Facebook page 10

Figure 2: Example of Changnoi post 10

Figure 3: The services of Changnoi 11

Figure 4: Changnoi’s services on Facebook page 12

Figure 5: Feedback on Changnoi Facebook page 12

Figure 6: Feedback by expressing on Changnoi Facebook page 13

Figure 7: Facebook post of Changnoi 13

Figure 8: Advertisement of Changnoi 14

Figure 9: Chat box of Changnoi 14

Figure 10: Pattaya international dental center home 17

Figure 11: About us of Pattaya international dental center 17

Figure 12: Navigation bar of Pattaya international dental center 18

Figure 13: List of services at Pattaya international dental center 19

Figure 14: Home page of Pattaya international dental center 19

Figure 15: Persuasive technique of Pattaya international dental center
20

Figure 16: Treatment by Pattaya international dental clinic 20

Figure 17: Price of the treatments 21

Figure 18: Gallery of Pattaya international dental center 21

Figure 19: The massager provided by Pattaya dental center 22

Figure 20: The map that the website provided 22

Figure 21: Contact page in Pattaya international dental center 22

Figure 22: Contact us by Pattaya international dental center 23

Figure 23: Reservation page 23

Figure 24: Ask your dentist option 24

Figure 25: The answer for the question the patients need to know about
24

Figure 26: The Facebook page of Pattaya international dental center 25

Figure 27: Skype 25

Figure 28: About us of Pattaya international dental center 26

Figure 29: Home page of BDMS wellness clinic 27

Figure 30: Information on BDMS wellness website 28

Figure 31: Key highlight of BDMS wellness website 28

Figure 32: Key highlight treatments of BDMS wellness website 28

Figure 33: Customers experience of BDMS wellness clinic 29

Figure 34: List of services of DBMS wellness clinic 30

Figure 35: Dental technology from the webpage 31

Figure 36: Customer experience in photo and written form 31

Figure 37: Before and after 32

Figure 38: The picture of facilities of BDMS wellness clinic 32

Figure 39: The inquiry on the webpage 33

Figure 40: Contact method for BDMS wellness clinic 33

Figure 41: Booking form of BDMS wellness clinic 34

Figure 42: The article about BDMS wellness clinic 34

Figure 43: International services 35

Figure 44: Hotel booking assistance of BDMS wellness clinic 35

Figure 45: Payment method of BDMS wellness clinic 35

Figure 46: Discover Bangkok in BDMS wellness website 36

Figure 47: “Where to eat” in BDMS wellness website 36

Figure 48: “Where to shop” in BDMS wellness website 36

Figure 49: Thai language in diary life in BDMS wellness webpage 37

Figure 50: Gantt chart for project management 50

Figure 51: Context diagram of dental management system 51

Figure 52: Data flow diagram level 0 of dental management system 52

Figure 53: Dataflow diagram level 1 of process 1.0: manage user 53

Figure 54: Dataflow diagram level 1 of process 2.0: Request appointment
54

Figure 55: Dataflow diagram level 1 of process 3.0: Manage appointment
55

Figure 56: Dataflow diagram level 1 of process 4.0: Report treatment 56

Figure 57: Dataflow diagram level 1 of process 5.0: Manage treatment 57

Figure 58: Entity relationship diagram of Dental Management System 61

Figure 59: Information of patient required 65

Figure 60: Register page 65

Figure 61: Login page 66

Figure 62: Home page 66

Figure 63: Booking page 67

Figure 64: Inbox to receive appointment 68

Figure 65: Review appointment information 68

Figure 66: Send message 69

Figure 67: Contact page 69

Figure 68: Inbox of appointment 70

Figure 69: About us 71

Figure 70: Our dentist 71

Figure 71: Our services 72

Figure 72: Prices 72

Figure 73: Login page for admin and dentist 73

Figure 74: Site administration 73

Figure 75: Show the users who register to our system 74

Figure 76: Admin site for managing user in system 75

Figure 77: Show date and login time 75

Figure 78: Appointment list 76

Figure 79: Appointment information form 76

1.  Introduction

This senior project is based on dental clinic management system (DCMS)
or let’s say a system built for dental clinics. To start with, we should
know what really dental clinic management system is. Dental clinic
management system is basically built to streamline, and standardized
electronic system specially designed for dental practitioners. DCMS
provides user-friendly and comprehensive functions covering standard
image-enabled patient records, configurable treatments and billing
plans, and integrated inventory, accounts and reports management. Dental
clinic management system is such kind of system which is not built often
or if built there won’t be many websites for dental clinics.

Most of the websites for dental clinics which exists are mostly of those
clinics which are very popularly known by the people. For example,
Pattaya international dental center is a very popular clinic in Pattaya
and it has functions that a clinic website should have. Another example
for a good website of dental clinic is the Bangkok smile dental clinic.
It is clear that dental clinics with a well renowned reputation will
surely have a website for their customers as well as visitors. For
popular dental clinics it is very easy for them to attract customers as
their name is enough to draw the attention of the customers and their
websites are just a source of advertisement to let the customers reach
them through their website.

Affording the fees of these hi-fi clinics is not possible by everyone
but when people hear of the cheaper dental clinics which is reasonable
enough for everyone to afford the fees, people go to check their webpage
and they find that these clinics does not have a webpage unlike other
clinics, that is when they start thinking of the reputation of the
clinic and some might doubt on their services as well. For theses
clinics not having a website can be affecting the clinic in a negative
way by not attracting much customers because the social media source,
the customers can reach them is through Facebook or a clinic website
.Through Facebook, the customers may get all the information regarding
the services, location, contact number but the customers aren’t
satisfied as it does not enable them to ease their tasks as through
Facebook they might feel or think it as an advertisement as they cannot
access to the functions which they actually require but end up asking
for information either by messaging through Facebook or contacting them
through their phone numbers.

If these clinics have their own website, it will be easier for them to
attract the customers towards them and seek of their services. By having
their own website it means a proper website with all the functions being
accessible by the customers which will ease their task and the clinic
gains the customer loyalty and might change the perspective of the
people who used to judge the clinics by their websites as well as their
popularity. A dental clinic website should consist of the functions that
can attract the customers as well as gain the customer loyalty.

The most common problem found in the dental websites is the website has
no purpose as most of the websites are all about the bio, about the
doctor, and a list of services offered. Instead of just showing the
address of the clinic and show a list of services within the website, a
dentist’s website should consider allowing the users access to the
following functions:

- Enable the new user to register or create an account

- Enable the customers to login

- Enable the customers choose the treatment they want

- Enable the customers to choose the clinic branch (if more than 1
  branch)

- Enable the customers to make the appointment through their website
  rather than contacting through phone

- Enable the customers to confirm their booking (place, date, time)

- Enable the customers to receive appointment date

- Enable the customers to receive the notification of being booked with
  an appointment with full details

With these functions being included in a clinic management system, we
can clearly see that it automatically has a purpose to offer the service
to the users and it won’t fail to excite the target public of a clinic
as well as it won’t fail to interact with the public for a specific
action.

2.  Case study

2.1 Changnoi Clinic (Which is the one we going to improve)

We have done the research on existed system (ChangNoi clinic) to study
and analyze the dental management system and to find out what are
existed problems and the solution.

[A screenshot of a computer screen Description automatically generated]

Figure 1: ChangNoi Facebook Page [1]

According to the picture above, it is the case study of ChangNoi dental
clinic. This clinic information is available in Facebook and the website
(dentalservicesfinder.com). From the observation, this clinic uses
Facebook page to distribute the clinic marketing. ChangNoi clinic
located in Lamphun province, Thailand. ChangNoi provide dental services
and available on online platform like Facebook page and other pages. As
we can roughly see in the Facebook page of ChangNoi dental clinic, they
provided mostly picture of the dental promotions and their dental
services. As an example, below ChangNoi dental clinic use the posting
method of Facebook to show the services and some information, plus the
price and promotion.

[A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically generated][A
screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically generated]

Figure 2: Example of Changnoi post

Services

Changnoi dental services have many services include:

- Braces

- Dental implant

- Filling

- Crown fitted

- Check up

- Teeth whitening

- Teeth cleaning

- X-ray

- Doctor appointment

[A person standing in front of a store Description automatically
generated]

Figure 3: The services of Changnoi

Functions of ChangNoi Dental Clinic website

As mentioned above ChangNoi dental clinic is available on Facebook and a
website named (dentalservicesfinder.com). From the availability of the
clinic we get to know that they don’t have their own website, so we
assume that their functionality is only available either on Facebook or
(dentalservicesfinder.com). The following are the functions provided by
ChangNoi dental clinic through Facebook.

- Contact: For contacting the clinic through Facebook you can simply
  type the clinic’s name in the search box, and you can see the address,
  contact number and their location with their working hours as well.
  All these will be on the right side of the page on Facebook.

- Services: The services offered by the clinic are shown through
  advertisements as a Facebook post in which they include the prices,
  promotions and the type of treatment they offer to the patients. Some
  services offered by them are teeth whitening, dental implant, braces
  setting, they also offer the membership for a year for the users of
  the clinic and crowning of the teeth. Apart from these they offer
  other treatments as well.

[Text Description automatically generated][Graphical user interface,
text, application Description automatically generated]

Figure 4: Changnoi’s services on Facebook page

- Feedback: They provide the customers to give their feedbacks on the
  services obtained from the clinic through the review sections on the
  left side of the page. In review, the customers can both upload their
  own picture and write feedback, or they can only write their feedback
  without any picture. The main purpose of review section is to get
  acknowledged by the customers regarding the services offered by them.

[Graphical user interface, application, Teams Description automatically
generated]

Figure 5: Feedback on Changnoi Facebook page.

[A group of people posing for the camera Description automatically
generated]

Figure 6: Feedback by expressing on Changnoi Facebook page.

- Advertisements: The page advertises by posting the photos of services
  offered as well as photos of the treatment that had been done in the
  past. So basically, Facebook is the platform where the clinic promotes
  itself the most not only by posting the services, they offer but the
  past treatments as well.

[Graphical user interface Description automatically generated]

Figure 7: Facebook post of Changnoi

The picture above is one of the services offered by the clinic being
used as an advertisement by the clinic. Along with the picture it has
the description of the treatment to inform the customers about what it
actually is.

[A screenshot of a computer screen Description automatically generated]

Figure 8: Advertisement of Changnoi

The figure above shows the past operation as a source of advertisement
so that the clinic can catch the attention of the customers through
services as well as the through the success rate of the operation or the
treatment.

- Messaging Service: The clinic gives the privilege to the customers
  apart from calling them the customers can also message them through
  the Messenger chat box or the messenger app on their phones. The
  customer can get all the same information through messages as they can
  get through a phone call. They can even make an appointment through
  message.

[Graphical user interface, text, application, chat or text message
Description automatically generated]

Figure 9: Chat box of Changnoi

The picture above shows the chat box from where the customer can ask for
more information or all the information from the clinic. It also
generates an automatic question for the customers such as where are you
located? Can I make an appointment? Etc.

Pros and Cons

So overall, Changnoi dental clinic provides most likely complete of the
important information that user needs to know. But as we can see,
Facebook page is not so attractive to the user. It is simple and very
inflexible, in other word, it needs to rely on Facebook. For example, it
is not able to do something out of the bound such as decoration and all.
Finally, we can list down the advantages and disadvantages of this
clinic includes;

Advantages

- The basic information is given. All necessary information that the
  customer required to know about clinic is given in the page for
  example, location, phone number, and price.

- The page simple and easy to understand. The user can surely understand
  the information given in the page thanks to Facebook platform which
  we’ll known widely.

- Easy to promote via the help of Facebook. Since the Facebook is the
  platform that widely use around the world. Most of the people are on
  Facebook which mean they can access to this clinic easily.

- It is easy to build the page on Facebook rather than on the website.
  Because Facebook have its pattern of page provided but building a own
  website surely required more time and resource.

Disadvantages

- The page has to only rely on the platform which mean the developer is
  not able to change any design or any pattern of the page. You are
  subject to rules changes and policy changes.

- The decoration is not attractive to the users and it have to follow
  Facebook pattern so it will look just familiar with another page.

- People can leave a bad comment on the page and lead other uses decide
  to use another clinic or judge the clinic in advance. The Facebook
  have the function that other user can leave a comment about that
  particular pages which people may have an unsatisfying experience or
  other issues may leave a bad comment and leads the clinic into a bad
  image.

- It needs regularly update or its will look neglected. The Facebook
  page required to update frequently otherwise the page will look out of
  date.

Solution

To conclude the case study, we get to know that ChangNoi dental clinic
is easy access as it is easy to build the page on Facebook rather than
the website but if they had a website, they could have a better
functionality such as make appointment online. Having a page on Facebook
can be easy to promote but the biggest threats comes as it is open for
everyone to comment on the page and if someone decides to leave bad
comments it can affect the other users and they might end their brand
loyalty towards the clinic. For ChangNoi dental clinic to have a good
attraction of the customers they should have their own website where
they can offer the access to the customers to the following functions:

- Register to the clinic (only when the user is new)

- Login

- Choose the treatment the user would want to

- Select the clinic branch

- Send the request to the clinic for the appointment

- Confirm booking (place, date, time)

- Receive appointment date

- Receive notification of being booked with an appointment with full
  details (place, date, time)

By having their own website and offering the following functions will
surely catch the attention of customers as it will ease the customer
tasks as well as increase the users’ satisfaction which is very
beneficial to the clinic.

2.2 Pattaya International Dental Center Background

[]

Figure 10: Pattaya international dental center home page [2]

[]

Figure 11: About us of Pattaya international dental center

As we scroll down the home page of Pattaya international dental center,
it also consists of the information of the clinic as well as a feedback
video and comments by one of their customers. According to the two
pictures above, it is clear that this case study will consist about the
information of Pattaya international dental center. The information will
consist of the services they offer, the functions of their website and
the pros and cons of their website. From the two figures above it is
clear that Pattaya international dental center uses its own website to
connect with the customers. The clinic is located in Pattaya, Thailand.
As we can see in their homepage, they have different options labeled in
different option box such as Home, About us, Services, Dental fee,
Gallery, Contact, and Ask your dentist. That means the customers who
navigate through the website will get different information from
different option channel.

[]

Figure 12: Navigation bar of Pattaya international dental center

The figure above shows the navigation bar with several options to
navigate through for the customers in order to get different information
from each one.

Services

When we talk about a dental clinic, we often think about the type of
services the clinic offers. It quite simple to understand that if it is
a dental clinic then all the services offered would be treatments for
teeth. There are various types of dental treatments, and the following
dental treatments are offered by Pattaya international dental center.

- Dental implant

- Veneer

- Dental crown and bridges

- Whitening

- Dental CT scan

- Oral surgery

- Root canal treatment

- Braces

- Gum treatment

- Cleaning

- Filling

- Removable denture

- X-ray

- 

[]

Figure 13: List of services at Pattaya international dental center

Functions of Pattaya international dental center

From the information above so far we know that Pattaya international
development center uses their website to attract with the customers by
allowing the customers to gain access to navigate through the website by
checking for the information they require such as type of services they
want, the dental fee for each services, they can also get the
information about the dentists under Pattaya international dental center
under the option of about us.

- Home Page: Pattaya international dental center’s homepage allow the
  customers to gather the information about the clinic and they also
  show the services in their homepage, but the customers can get the
  details in the service and dental fee menu. They also provide their
  staff pic as well as one of their customers review on their service on
  the right-hand side of the information of the clinic.

[]

Figure 14: Home page of Pattaya international dental center

- About Us: In their website, they have an option of about us which
  means additional information about the clinic. In their case, in this
  option they provide the personal information of the dentists working
  in the clinic with the full information of their qualifications and a
  persuasive message to attract the customers.

[]

Figure 15: Persuasive technique of Pattaya international dental center

The above picture shows the persuasive technique of the clinic to
attract the customers as they ensure the customers by telling their
vision towards the customers, their mission towards the customers and
their values of better quality, better services, better punctuality and
better environment.

- Services: By service we mean the treatments provided by the clinic to
  the customers. For looking into services, the have provided the
  service option on the navigation bar. Once the open the service menu,
  the customers then can see the various types of treatments they can
  get from the clinic.

[]

Figure 16: Treatment by Pattaya international dental center

- Dental Fee: The services offered by the clinic are obviously not free,
  so they provide a different section where the customers can take a
  look for the fee of the treatment. it is an easy way of telling the
  customers about the price of the treatment rather than receiving their
  calls and telling them the price of the treatment.

[]

Figure 17: Price of the treatments

The figure above shows the options of dental fee of various types of
treatments and it further expands once the customers clicks on the plus
sign for getting more information.

- Gallery: The gallery option in website allows the customers to see the
  venue of the clinic, the rooms inside the clinic that are used for the
  treatments and the past treatments which had been done showing the
  difference between before the treatment and after the treatment. When
  the customer scrolls down further, the pictures of the dentists and
  the staff that are working in the clinic are also available.

[]

Figure 18: Gallery of Pattaya international dental center

- Contact: The website also allows the user to contact the Clinic by
  using messenger from Facebook. The website provides the shortcut for
  messenger so that the user can be reached easily.

[A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically generated]

Figure 19: The messenger provided by Pattaya international dental center

[A close up of a map Description automatically generated]

Figure 20: The map that the website provided

[A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically generated]

Figure 21: Contact page in Pattaya international dental center

The picture above, the website provides additional way to reach out to
the clinic for those who are not using Facebook or messenger. The
website allows the users to contact to the clinic through the website.

[A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically generated]

Figure 22: Contact us by Pattaya international dental center

This is the information the website provides about their location and
phone number that users may need in order to contact the clinic.

[A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically generated]

[A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically generated]

Figure 23: Reservation page.

As you can see above, the users required to fill in their information to
schedule the visit. Moreover, there are options like pick up, airport
transfer and more as in Figure 3.4.

- Ask your dentist: This option in the website allows users to find the
  most asked questions that previous patients asked. Which this function
  can more or less satisfy the number of users who having a similar
  question so that they can find out by themselves easily.

[A screenshot of a social media post Description automatically
generated]

Figure 24: Ask your dentist option

[A screenshot of a social media post Description automatically
generated]

Figure 25: The answer for the questions the patients need to know about

- Facebook page: Pattaya international dental clinic also provide the
  Facebook page. Which provide any information that the user needs to
  know for example the link to the website, location, map, and email
  address.

[A screenshot of a computer screen Description automatically generated]

Figure 26: The Facebook page of Pattaya international dental clinic

- Skype: Pattaya international dental clinic also provide call and chat
  via Skype for the user who use Skype.

[A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically generated]

Figure 27: Skype

Problems in Pattaya international dental center website

- The problem that occurs for the website is that when the customers
  open the website, the first thing it shows are the photos of the
  dentists and the staff working in the clinic then followed by their
  information and a feedback of their past customers.

- Another problem found is that they have a data repetition for their
  about us where they repeat the same thing in two pages which is the
  homepage and in the about us section. The difference of both the
  information of about us is that in the homepage the about us is not
  focused as one of the words starts with a capital letter and the other
  word starts with small letter. As in the about us section, it clearly
  shows that it focuses on about us as both the words start with capital
  letters. The difference is shown below in the pictures.

[]

Figure 28: About us of Pattaya international dental center

The above picture shows the information of about us of Pattaya
international dental center illustrating their vision mission and values
in the homepage by having the difference in writing “About us”

Analysis of Case Study 2

To conclude this case study, we get to know that Pattaya international
dental clinic is very easy to reach since it is available in website,
Facebook, and Skype. Its functionality is what makes it easy for the
customers to reach them, but their website still has some slight
problems as discussed earlier. The problems which occurred are

- Too many photos on the opening of homepage then followed by their
  clinic’s information and a feedback of their past customer.

- Data repetition of about us on homepage as well as about us section.
  The difference is based on the word representation as on the homepage
  they use “About us” and under the section of about us they use “About
  Us”.

In order to overcome these problems, they should improve their website
in the following ways

- Instead of opening the website with the photos of their dentists and
  staff, they should open the website with the information of the clinic
  followed by the feedback of one of their customers and then the photos
  of the dentists and their staff should appear.

- In order to avoid data repetition of the same information on two
  different pages, the about us information describing their vision,
  mission and values should be removed from the homepage and let it be
  in the about us section

OR

- Remove the about us information describing their vision, mission and
  value under the about us section and change the main heading from
  about us to our dentists as their about us section contains the
  information of their dentists as well.

2.3 BDMS Wellness Clinic

According to the pictures below, it is the case study of BDMS wellness
dental clinic who provide their information through their website .In
their website they offer the information of their services, their list
of dentists who are working in the clinic and they also provide their
contact through phone number, email, Line, Facebook etc. The clinic is
located in Bangkok, Thailand. In this case study we will gather the
information of their website and study the services provided by them as
well as the pros and cons of their website.

Background

The homepage of BDMS wellness clinic consists of several parts in a
page. In the website as the customers will scroll down the homepage,
they will start with some basic service at the top such as free online
consultation as the first option. After they scroll down further, they
will be able to look at the introduction of the clinic with a picture
being placed on the left-hand side and the description being written on
the right-hand side. Going further down, the customers see two options
where the clinic show some of their highlights in brief such as
problem-based solutions and their highlight treatment. At the homepage
they also allow the new visitors to read about the customer experience
with the clinic and the customers can also access to gallery from the
homepage as there is an option for the customers to click for access. At
the bottom of the homepage, they provide their contact through phone
number and email and their location address as well as their opening
hours. Their contact is listed on the top of the website as well as at
the bottom of homepage.

[]

Figure 29: Home page of BDMS wellness clinic

The figure above shows the homepage of the clinic website where they
offer the customers to navigate up to six options with all the options
being different.

[]

Figure 30: Information on BDMS wellness website

As the users scroll down the homepage, they get further information of
the clinic as the introduction of the clinic is provided with the
picture of the clinic

[]

Figure 31: Key highlights of BDMS wellness clinic

The picture above shows some of the key highlights of their services
with two options problem-based solutions and highlight treatment. The
above picture focuses on the problem based dental solutions by giving
the idea of some services

[]

Figure 32: key highlight treatment of BDMS wellness clinic

The figure above shows the key highlighted treatments of the clinic that
are provided to the customers and they give a brief information about
the treatments

[]

Figure 33: Customer experience of BDMS wellness clinic

The figure above shows the customer experience with the clinic and the
experience in the above figure is the experience shared by Miss Han Thi,
Miss Myanmar World 2018

Services

The following services are provided by the BDMS wellness dental clinic
to the customers.

- Cosmetic Dentistry

- Dental Implants

- Endodontic Dentistry

- Fresh Breath Clinic

- Invisalign

- Operative Dentistry

- Oral Surgery

- Pediatric Dentistry in Thailand

- Periodontics Dentistry

- Prosthodontics

[]

Figure 34: List of services of BDMS wellness clinic

The figure above shows some of the listed services in their website and
the customers can get further information once click on the option of
any one of the treatments

Functions

BDMS wellness dental clinic surely tell about their services through
their website and also does show the past customer experiences with the
clinic as well as the before after result to the customers. Apart of
giving the information to the customers, BDMS wellness dental clinic
also provides some of their functions to the customers such as
contacting them through Line, Facebook and even the customers can
schedule their visit to the clinic online. The functions are listed on
their navigation bar such as the option dentists is for the customers to
read about the dentist and get their information on which type of
treatments, they are specialized in. They also provide the options of
choosing the language that the customers are comfortable in.

- Dental technology: This will show the technology that this clinic
  provided for the patient.

[A screenshot of a person Description automatically generated]

[A picture containing person, indoor, man, standing Description
automatically generated]

Figure: 35: Dental Technology from the webpage

- Gallery: It shows the picture that related to this clinic include;

  - Customer experience: This where the website collects all comments
    and feedbacks on the clinic, so it allows other new customer to know
    the clinic’s performance.

  - Before after: This is where the website collects the picture of
    cases between before dental treatment and after dental treatment.

  - Facility: The picture collection of the clinic and the facility they
    provided.

[A screenshot of a social media post Description automatically
generated]

[A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically generated]

Figure36: Customer experience in photo and written form.

[A screenshot of a social media post Description automatically
generated]

Figure 37: Before and after

[A group of people in a kitchen Description automatically generated]

Figure 38: The picture of facilities of BDMS wellness clinic

- Contact us: BDMS wellness dental clinic provide many ways to contact
  to the clinic include; Phone number, location, Line, Facebook, Email,
  and via the website

[A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically generated]

Figure 39: The inquiry on the webpage

[A close up of a logo Description automatically generated]

Figure 40: Contact method for BDMS wellness clinic

The available communication way for the customer who want to contact the
clinic. It is in a shortcut form include; Phone number, Line, Messenger,
and email.

[A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically generated]

[A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically generated]

Figure 41: Booking form of BDMS wellness clinic

Schedule your visit for the customer who want to book the schedule for
an appointment with the doctor or visit to the clinic. The user can fill
in the form and submit to the clinic through the webpage.

- Article: It is the interesting article that related to dental that
  this clinic captured into the site. There are many knowledges that the
  user can get from this.

[A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically generated]

Figure 42: The article about BDMS wellness clinic

[A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically generated]

Figure 43: International services for the customer

[A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically generated]

Figure 44: Hotel booking assistance of BDMS wellness clinic

Hotel booking assistance for the foreigners who come from a different
country and have to stay overnight. This clinic also provided a hotel
for the patients. Plus, this clinic cooperates with some hotel in
Bangkok which will help the customer to contact to the hotel easier and
good hotel price.

[A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically generated]

Figure 45: Payment method of BDMS wellness clinic

This is the available payment options include VISA, MASTERCARD, and
AMERICAN EXPRESS. This will allow the customer to plan their payment
easier.

[A screen shot of a city Description automatically generated]

Figure 46: Discover Bangkok in BDMS wellness clinic website

The clinic also provides ‘Discover Bangkok’ function so that the
customer can travel while visit for the dental treatment at the same
time.

[A close up of food Description automatically generated]

Figure 47: ‘Where to eat’ in BDMS wellness website

[A screenshot of a social media post Description automatically
generated]

Figure 48: ‘Where to shop’ in BDMS wellness website

[A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically generated]

Figure 49: Thai language in diary life in BDMS wellness clinic webpage

Thai language in daily life is also provided in this clinic website, it
shows the Thai words and sentence that foreigner needs to know when
staying in Thailand should know.

3.  Statement of Problem

From the case study above, we have chosen Changnoi clinic that we going
to improve. There are several problems that we got form the case study
which will be listed and explain below:

Rely on online platform (Facebook)

The ChangNoi dental clinic have to fully rely on the online platform
(Facebook) for their advertisement, information of the services they
provide in the clinic, their promotions available for the customers.
Promoting through Facebook is considered good enough for promotions and
advertisements but when it comes to the services provided by the clinic,
Facebook can fell short of attracting the customers for the clinic as
the services may not be in details as we can get from a well-built
website that can provide full information and details about the clinic
and their services. Providing services through Facebook can be a
drawback in terms of attracting customers and gaining customer loyalty.

Unattractive Design

As we all know that a Facebook will never be as attractive as a pure
website. Another problem for ChangNoi clinic is that they are not able
to convert their Facebook page into an attractive one because the page
admin of the clinic have to follow the rules and regulations of Facebook
as they are using Facebook as their main source of advertisement,
promotions and providing the information of the clinic. So, it is
difficult for them to make changes for their page to make it a better
and an attractive design. Another disadvantage of having a Facebook page
is that it will look like any other page as all the pages have to follow
the Facebook pattern in order to have a page.

Open-end opinions and reviews

Facebook is an online public platform where people from any part of the
world has the permission from Facebook to leave comments on any post or
page. They can also write a review for any page or post on their
timeline. This may affect the clinic in a way that some people may add
some negative comments about the clinic like writing about the services
as a bad service or unsatisfied of the services by the clinic. It would
affect the new customers the most as they might not know about the
clinic and its quality of their services. So, the new customers are most
highly to be affected by the negative reviews by other people and they
might end up going to the other clinics.

Regular update required

For a Facebook page, a regular update of the page is necessary as with
the change of time it can look outdated as users who ever visits the
ChangNoi clinic’s page will not be excited to see the page anymore as
there would not be anything new in the page and it would consist all the
same old information that have been for long in the page. If not
regularly updated, they might lose the customer attention as well as
their loyalty towards the clinic because when the users first find the
information about the place where they are going to get treated the
first thing which attracts them is of course the website and the more
attractive website the more customer attention.

Photos without any information on the opening of the homepage

The problem of Pattaya international dental center is that when the
customers open the website, the first thing it shows are the photos of
the dentists and the staff working in the clinic then followed by their
information and a feedback of their past customers. When the users open
a website, they usually want to see the information at first and not the
photos of the dentists and staff working there. Though this is not a
huge problem but it still cannot be neglected as even these small
mistakes or we can say problems can be the cause of confusion for the
customers as most of them might expect that as soon as they open a
website the first thing they will get is the information about what they
need but what they see is a group of photos of their staff and dentists
working in the clinic.

Information Repetition

In the case of Pattaya international dental center’s website, only one
part of the information is repeated at two different sections of the
website. The information repeated is the clinics about us information
about their vison, mission and values. First it appears at the bottom of
the homepage where it is clear that they don’t focus on that part as it
is heading is written as “About us” where we can see the alphabet a is
in capital and the alphabet u is small. On the other hand, under the
section of about us we will see the same information being displayed
with just the difference of the heading representation which goes by
“About Us”. Here it is clear that the about us section clearly focuses
on the information about the clinic.

4.  User Requirements

User requirement: The process to get to know who will be involved in the
project/system and what their activities are. In this process we will
get the level of management, organizational charts and in order to get
those we need to take an interview, study into each function of the
system.

Stakeholders of dental clinic are followed;

Patients

The customers will be provided with a QR code to access the web
application. They will also be needing an ID and password to login to
the web application. The customer requirements are;

- The patients can log in to the website

- The patients have to fill in the information include Name, gender,
  age, date of birth, phone number, email, address.

- The patients can view the services

- The patients can select service

- The patients can book an appointment

- The patients can report the problems

- The patients can view status of an appointment.

Dentist

Care providers are who basically give services to the patient and
provide suggestion as well as warning. The dentist has to log in into
the system in order to manipulate and view information.

Dentist requirement are;

- The dentist can view patient’s information

- The dentist receives patient’s reservation

- The dentist can view history of the service that the patient took.

- The dentist receives a patient’s appointment

- The dentist sent the report of the patient’s after the service.

Web developers for the website of the clinic

Technology provider is very important in dental clinic management system
because with the help of technology, things get a lot easier and more
convenience but there will always be a problems or latencies so that we
need the people who look before and after these technologies. Web
developer requirement are;

- Web developer plan and develop the website

- Web developer design the database

- Web developer maintain the website

- Web developer collect and analyze the information that may useful to
  the website.

Patient management or receptionist

Management team is very important, in order to run the clinic smoothly
we need a good management team. Patient management or receptionist are;

- Access to the website and manage the schedule of patient and dentist.

- Receive a reservation from patience.

- Arrange the appointment

- Report the schedule to the dentist

Manager

The person who will be taking care of all thing occur in the clinic and
lead the clinic into a successful way.

- Receive the report

- Study and analyze data to improve the clinic

Technician

Technician are the people who maintain/fix/solve errors of equipment,
system, tools, mechanical. Technician requirement include;

- Fix the dentist tools

- Fix the dentist machine

- Maintain tools and machine

Suppliers

Suppliers are both individual and company that provide equipment, tools,
machine that necessary for the clinic. Suppliers requirement include;

- Maintain tools and machine

Banks, Funders

Banks, Funders, the source of the money for investment, improvement,
maintenance.

- Provide funds

5.  Objectives of the project

The main objective of this website is to make it easy for patience to
interact with dental clinic and be able to check the available services
and book an appointment online without actually going to the physically
clinic or calling the clinic during their opening hours. Plus, replace
traditional paper-based system due to the global warming and other
natural disaster from using paper. The objectives of dental management
system are listed down as; Provide a proper digital management system:
With the help of technologies, we can establish a system that help
managing the dental clinic. With the proper system clinic can run in an
organized way for example, when the patience sent the information like
an appointment via the system, the clinic can easily manage the time and
date of an appointment. The system will show available time and date to
the user so that the user can decide when to book the appointment.
Customer satisfaction: To ensure that all customer that use this system/
website to satisfy and use our system consecutively. Reduce time and
cost: The system can shorten time to connect to the clinic since the
user can access to the website any time and the schedule will already
arranged in the site. So, the user can select available time and service
as they want. In addition, some people often come to the clinic and
check the schedule. But with the system, the user can easily check the
availability online. Real time data transmittance: Since the website is
on online platform, the transmittance between the data surely at very
high speed. So, if the customer wants to contact the clinic, they can
immediately do so. Managing the whole system within one place: Since
everything is on the system and working connectively, everything can be
check and control under the conditions of the system. For instance, when
the customer book an appointment on the website, the receptionist also
can check which services the user booked and which dentist they should
provide, also the dentist can check by themselves whether they have a
patience or not.

Therefore, this project comprise four objectives listed step as follow:

1.  Project provides scheduling system for the clinic

2.  Project prepares function about “Get in touch”

3.  Project prepares the information of clinic.

4.  Project shows price list of the service

6.  Scope of the project

Scheduling system

- Patient can give information

- Patient can register/ login to the system

- Patient access to home page

- Patient can book date and time

- Patient can give an appointment detail

- Dentist get a notification from patient through email

- Stuff/ dentist can see appointment from patient

- Stuff/ dentist sent confirmation to patient

Get in touch (Not register yet)

- Patient can reach out to the system

- The information from patient will sent to the dentist via email.

- Dentist can contact patient via information that patient provides (Tel
  and email)

About us

- System provides information about the clinic overall information

- Dentist details

- Services details: General dental, filling, orthodontics, teething
  whitening, teeth cleaning, root canal treatment, dental for kids.

Price

- System provides price list for each service.

The scope of our system will define that what our system will be able to
do in order to help the users to ease their task and save their time.
Our scope will also tell about the functionality of the system provided
to different groups of users for instance, our system is a dental clinic
system so it will provide the functionality to the users such as
patients, dentists, etc. The first group is the patients as they are the
main users who will use the web application the most and the web
application will be designed to ease their tasks and satisfy their
needs. The second group will be the dentists who provide the treatment
to the patients and help them in all the problems related to the
patient’s teeth. The third group will be the receptionist who will have
an important role in fixing the appointment between the patient and the
dentist. The fourth group will be the manager who will keep all the
record of the patients visited, treatment done in a month. The patients
have the accessibility to create their account on the website when they
are new users. The users then have to provide the username and password
for logging in the website and once they login the website, the admin
will make sure that their passwords are authorized for the website and
their account is created. After logging in to the website, the users
then are asked to fill the patient’s information form where basic
information about the patient will be asked. The patients are required
to fill in the information form which includes name, gender, and age,
date of birth, phone number, email, and address. When the patient’s
information form is filled, they can further navigate the website. The
patients can browse through the services provided by the clinic. As we
all know there are various types of services in a dental clinic.

After looking at all the services provided, the users may choose the
treatment of their choice or choose the treatment they are looking for.
This function will ease the patient’s tasks as they can select the
treatment by just sitting at home and don’t even have to contact the
clinic. After the process of choosing the treatment they want, they can
then go for booking an appointment in the clinic by choosing the
treatment they want and the date they are available to go to the clinic
as well the time. While booking an appointment with the clinic, the
patients can tell about their problems that what really, they want and
what happened to their teeth. Mainly they can tell the problems occurred
and the treatment they are looking for. Once the patients are booked
with an appointment, they can view the status of their appointment on
the website itself. It will tell the patients about the date and time
that they have been appointed with the dentists.

The dentists can receive the information about the patient which
consists of the problems that the patients have mentioned alongside with
the treatment they need. Dentist can use that information to maintain
the record of the patients in the clinic. When the patients’ reservation
is done, the dentists are informed about the reservations and then they
can tell their availability accordingly. If the dentist is not available
at the date and time the patient wants, then they can recommend some
other date and time as per their availability to the patients. Once the
reservation or appointment has been confirmed, the dentists are able to
study the problem of the patients and prepare themselves for the
treatment on the appointed date and time. After the treatment is done on
the appointed date and time, the dentists can view the history of the
treatment that the patient took and record it in the patient’s record
history with the reports of the treatment being attached. As for the
report of the treatment that is made by the dentists after the
treatment, those reports are then recorded by the dentists in the record
of patient’s history where the whole history of the services that
patients took will be available.

The system functions for the receptionist are as follows: The
receptionist will be the main person who will see the patient’s request
and can manage the requested reservation by editing after getting the
availability of the dentist on which date and what time. So instead of
calling back the patient to inform their schedule, they just have to
update on the website. The role of a receptionist is vital because they
will be behind the scheduling of the appointment between the patient and
the dentist as per the patient’s request and the dentist’s availability.
The only difference with the website is before the receptionist would
receive a phone call from the patient and then the appointment is
scheduled and with the website, they will just see the patient request
and proceed according to the availability of the dentist. After
receiving and managing the patient’s reservation for the treatment, the
receptionist will further finalize the date and time according to the
dentist’s availability and then will arrange an appointment for the
patient. The appointment can be on the date requested by the patient as
well as the date the dentist is available. Once the receptionist is done
arranging the appointment for the patient, they will further report the
schedule to the dentist, so they are updated with their schedule on
different dates and times and does not forget about the appointment.

The system functions for the manager are the manager of the clinic will
have the access of the reports of the daily operations of the
outpatients and the use of the medical facilities in the clinic. They
provide the administrative support to the clinic such as saving the
records of the total patients, their information, the treatment they got
and even the information of all the dentists and staff working in the
staff. With getting the report of the clinic on a daily basis, they will
have to update all the reports on the daily basis into the system as
there is always a closing time for the clinic which means a daily report
is a must to be recorded in the system for the clinic.

7.  Limitations of the project

The limitations of a system basically mean that even if the system
provides the functionality to the users there are still some features or
let’s say some functions which are not accessible by the users of the
website. There is nothing in this world which is perfect even the
technologies are also not perfect. So, it wouldn’t be strange to say
that this website is not perfect or this website does have some
limitations for the users that they cannot access.

QR Code: The only way to access to the website is through QR code or the
website link. As this is a web application and it does not have any
version on different platforms so accessing through the website link or
QR code is required for reaching the login page of the website.

Payment Option: The users as in the patients does not have the access to
the payment option as the website does not support the payment channel
and the payment to be done at the clinic after the treatment is done.
This is a major limitation as the patients may want to pay online
instead of paying in cash.

Specific Time for Booking: It is quite obvious that the dental clinics
have their own opening and closing time. When the patient book his/her
during the clinic is open, it is sure that the receptionist will receive
their request for reservation but what if the patient send a request for
reservation after the clinic is closed will the receptionist be able to
receive the request at that time? The answer is no as once the clinic is
closed all the system and servers are switched off as well so the
request will be received the next morning by the receptionist.

8.  Cost and Benefits

8.1 Cost of the Proposed System

Table 1: Cost of hardware and software

+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Hardware and software cost                                                                         |
+:=============================+:==========================================+:========================+
|   Personal Computer          |   PC ThinkCentre M720 Tower               | 13,661 THB              |
|                              |                                           |                         |
|                              |   Intel Celeron Processor G4900 (2MB      |                         |
|                              |   Cache, 3.10GHz)                         |                         |
|                              |                                           |                         |
|                              |   Windows 10 Home 64                      |                         |
|                              |                                           |                         |
|                              |   8GB DDR4 2666MHz UDIMM                  |                         |
|                              |                                           |                         |
|                              |   Integrated GPU                          |                         |
|                              |                                           |                         |
|                              |   1TB Hard Drive, 7200RPM, 3.5", SATA3    |                         |
|                              |                                           |                         |
|                              |   No optical drive                        |                         |
|                              |                                           |                         |
|                              |   Tower B360 85% Power 210W               |                         |
|                              |                                           |                         |
|                              |   1 year’s warranty                       |                         |
|                              |                                           |                         |
|                              |   No M.2 Storage Card                     |                         |
|                              |                                           |                         |
|                              |   NIC integration                         |                         |
+------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+
|   Server                     |   Dell PowerEdge T40 Specification        | 13,100 THB              |
|                              |                                           |                         |
|                              |   Intel® Xeon® E-2224G 3.5GHz, 8M cache,  |                         |
|                              |   4C/4T, turbo (71W) / 8G ECC UDIMM/1TB,  |                         |
|                              |   TPM                                     |                         |
|                              |                                           |                         |
|                              |   8GB 2666MT/s DDR4 ECC UDIMM             |                         |
|                              |                                           |                         |
|                              |   1 x 1TB 7.2k Entry SATA 3.5in Cable     |                         |
|                              |   Hard Drive                              |                         |
|                              |                                           |                         |
|                              |   Onboard Intel VROC 6.X, Support RAID 0. |                         |
|                              |   1, 5                                    |                         |
|                              |                                           |                         |
|                              |   DVD+/- RW, SATA 8X, 9.5                 |                         |
|                              |                                           |                         |
|                              |   1 x Gigabit Ethernet                    |                         |
|                              |                                           |                         |
|                              |   Single Power Supply, 300W, Bronze       |                         |
|                              |                                           |                         |
|                              |   MiniTower Chassis with up to 3 x 3.5”   |                         |
|                              |   Cabled Hard Drives                      |                         |
|                              |                                           |                         |
|                              |   3Yr ProSupport & Mission Critical       |                         |
|                              |   (7x24) 4-hour Onsite Service            |                         |
+------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+
|   Peripheral devices         |   MONITOR VIEWSONIC VA2223-H 21.5" TN FHD | 2550 THB                |
|                              |   60Hz                                    |                         |
|                              |                                           |                         |
|                              |   Size: 21.5"                             |                         |
|                              |                                           |                         |
|                              |   Brightness: 250 cd/m²                   |                         |
|                              |                                           |                         |
|                              |   Contrast: 600: 1                        |                         |
|                              |                                           |                         |
|                              |   Response Time: 5 ms                     |                         |
|                              +-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+
|                              |   LAN CABLE BRILLIANT LAN UTP CAT6E BLACK | 100 THB                 |
|                              |   [5M]                                    |                         |
|                              +-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+
|                              |   Cable POWER AC 1mm (1.8M) COOLPOW       | 35 THB                  |
|                              +-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+
|                              |   Cable Power AC 3 1.8M                   | 95 THB                  |
+------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+
|   Total                                                                  | 29,541 THB              |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------+

Table 2: Cost of system implementation

+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Cost for system implementation                                                 |
+:=========================+:=========================+:=========================+
|   Web hosting            |   Host Seven Plus VPS    | 359 THB per year         |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+
|   Internet Connection    |   True GIGATEX Fiber     | 599 THB per month        |
|                          |                          |                          |
|                          |   200/200 Mbps           |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+
|   Total                                             | 958 THB                  |
+-----------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+

Table 3: Cost of developer

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Cost for system developer                                                   |
+=========================+=========================+=========================+
| Project manager         | Run and control the     | 30,000 THB per month    |
|                         | project flow            |                         |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| System analysis and     | Analyze and design the  | 25,000 THB per month    |
|                         | project flow such as    |                         |
| System designer         | dataflow diagram,       |                         |
|                         | entity relationship     |                         |
|                         | diagram.                |                         |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| UX/UI Designer          | Design the user         | 25,000 THB per month    |
|                         | interface               |                         |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| Web developer           | Develop the website     | 30,000 THB per month    |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| Total                   |                         | 110,000 THB per month   |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+

8.2 Benefits of the Proposed System

Intangible Benefits

This system provides several intangible benefits which are follows:

- Easy access to the web application: The customer can easily access the
  website through any device which has an internet connection and a
  supported web browser. Since, it is a web application, installation is
  not required.

- Easy to use interface: The customer can use the interface without any
  difficulties as all the services that the dental management system
  functions have been provided on the website.

- Save time: User are not necessary to come to the clinic to book an
  appointment and go back home to wait for the appointment date.

- Increase customer experience: It is convenient for the user to book an
  appointment online anytime and anywhere with the website we provide.
  And the user can see all the information about the clinic.

Tangible Benefits

This system provides tangible benefit which is:

- Save money by providing online booking: Clinic can save the cost for
  printing paper based by providing the booking appointment online in
  the system.

9.  Methodology

Requirement analysis

Before developing our system, we collected information regarding other
dental management system by researching on their website and doing case
studies. Once, we found out what are all requirements and what are the
thing required to complete our project, we manage to collect all
important requirements and then apply to next our process.

System Design

After gathering all requirements, we moved to next process which is
system designing. In this process we analyzed costs and benefits of the
system to figure total estimate that we need to develop as well as
maintain the website. Moreover, we defined our scope of the project and
limitation on our project. In addition, we worked on understanding our
project objective. Finally, we designed the ER-Diagram to get better
understand of the database and Dataflow diagram this included context
diagram, level 0 diagram, and level 1 diagram for a better understanding
of our system. And then we designed data dictionary for our database.

Implementation

After we complete designing all diagram and system architecture or
system blueprint, we developed the web application by programming it. We
use ER-Diagram to create the database in Django. Our programming section
we used to implement our website included HTML, python, Mysql, and PHP.
We used python server from the internet to run our website.

Verification

We uploaded our website to the server online in order to check problems
and fix bugs. During the step of verification, there are a lot of
obstacles we have to faces such as bugs in coding, error in database
management system, and etc.

Maintenance

After the system is used by clinic, it needs to be properly maintained
by:

- Taking reviews and suggestions from the customer.

- Update the system with new features to satisfy the customer needs.

- Creating a Backup of the system so it can be restored if any problems
  occur.

10. Project Management

[A picture containing chart Description automatically generated]

Figure 50: Gantt chart for project management

This Gantt chart illustrated the timeline on each activity on our
project and the duration of each. There are four main process which are
Requirement analysis, System design, Implementation, and Verification.

11. Logical Design of the Proposed System

11.1 Data Flow Diagram

[]

Figure 51: Context diagram of Dental Management System

Figure 51: Context diagram represents the entire process and entities of
the project which it explains the information flows between internal and
external entities. According to the figure, it shows the information
flow between patient, stuff, admin, and dentist that involved in the
dental management system. In the system, patient is the only entity that
is an external stakeholders and dentist, stuff, and admin are internal
stakeholders.

Level 0 diagram

[]

Figure 52: Data flow diagram level 0 of Dental Management System

Dataflow diagram level 0 represents the workflow of dental management
system which consists of 5 process; 1.0 Manage user, 2.0 Request
appointment, 3.0 Manage appointment, 4.0 Report treatment, and 5.0
Manage treatment.

Level 1 diagram: Manage user

[]

Figure 53: Data flow diagram level 1 of process 1.0: Manage users

Data flow diagram level 1 of process 1.0: manage users represents the
process inside process 1.0 which are 1.1 Receive user info, 1.2 Validate
user info, 1.3 Record user info, 1.4 Show user info, and 1.5 Verify
login info.

Level 1 diagram: Request appointment

[]

Figure 54: Data flow diagram level 1 of process 2.0: Request Appointment

Data flow diagram level 1 of process 2.0: Request Appointment represents
sub process in process 2.0 request appointment which consists; 2.1
receive patient, 2.2 Receive requested appointment list, and 2.3 Record
appointment.

Level 1 diagram: Manage appointment

[]

Figure 55: Data flow diagram level 1 of process 3.0: Manage Appointment

Data flow diagram level 1 of process 3.0: Manage Appointment represents
the sub process of process 3.0 which consists 3.1 Receive appointment,
3.2 Verify appointment, 3.3 Confirm appointment, and 3.4 Update
appointment.

Level 1 diagram: Report treatment

[]

Figure 56: Data flow diagram level 1 of process 4.0: Report treatment

Data flow diagram level 1 of process 4.0: Report treatment represents
sub process of process 4.0 which consist; 4.1 Show treatment list, 4.2
Record treatment, 4.3 Verify treatment, and Confirm treatment.

Level 1 diagram: Manage treatment

[]

Figure 57: Data flow diagram level 1 of process 5.0: Manage treatment

This picture shows the data flow diagram level 1 of process 5.0,
managing treatment comprise four process which are; Show treatment, show
dentist list, assign dentist to handle treatment, update the complete
status of the treatment.

11.2 Logic Modelling

Process 1.0 manage user:

Process 1.1 Review user info

GET Patient Info from DENTIST. GET Staff Info from DENTIST.

GET Patient Info from STAFF. GET Dentist Info from STAFF.

GET Patient Info from ADMIN. GET Dentist Info from ADMIN.

SENT User Info to Validate User Info.

GET Patient Info from Patient Database. GET Stuff Info from Stuff
Database.

Process 1.2 Validate User Info

GET User Info from 1.1 Receive User Info.

GET Validated Patient Info from ADMIN. GET Validated Dentist Info from
ADMIN.

GET Validated Stuff Info from ADMIN.

SENT Validated Patient Info to Patient Database. SENT Validated Stuff
Info to Stuff Database.

SENT Validated User Info to 1.3 Record User Info

Process 1.3 Record User Info

GET User Info from 1.2 Validate User Info

GET Recorded Patient Info from ADMIN.GET Recorded Stuff Info from ADMIN.

SENT Validated Patient Info to Patient Database. SENT Stuff Info to
Stuff Database.

Sent User Info to 1.4 Show User Info.

Process 1.4 Show User Info

GET User Info from 1.3 Record User Info.

SENT Patient Info to DENTIST. SENT Stuff Info to DENTIST. SENT Patient
Info to STUFF.

SENT Patient Info to Patient Database. SENT Stuff Info to Stuff
Database.

Process 1.5 Verify Login Info

GET Patient Id & Password from Patient Database. GET Stuff Id & Password
from Stuff Database.

GET Patient Id & Password from PATIENT.

SENT Patient Account to PATIENT

GET Stuff Id & Password from STUFF

SENT Stuff Account to STUFF

Process 2.0 Request Appointment:

Process 2.1 Receive patient info

SENT Requested Patient Info to STUFF. GET Patient Info from STUFF.

SENT Patient Info to 2.2 Receive Requested Appointment List.

Process 2.2 Receive requested appointment list

GET Patient Info from 2.1 Receive Patient Info.

GET Requested Appointment from STUFF. SENT Appointment Info to STUFF.

GET Requested Appointment from PATIENT. SENT Appointment to PATIENT.

SENT Appointment List Info to Appointment List Database.

SENT Appointment to Appointment Database.

GET Requested Appointment Info from DENTIST

SENT Appointment List Info to DENTIST.

SENT Appointment to 2.3 Record appointment.

Process 2.3 Record appointment

GET Appointment from 2.2 Receive Requested Appointment List.

GET Appointment List Info from Appointment List Database.

GET Appointment from Appointment Database.

Process 3.0 Manage Appointment

Process 3.1 Receive appointment

GET Patient Appointment from PATIENT. SENT Requested Appointment to
PATIENT.

SENT Appointment Info to DENTTIST.

Process 3.2 Verify appointment

GET Requested Patient Id from DENTIST. SENT Patient Id to DENTIST.

SENT Requested Dentist Id to DENTIST. GET Dentist Id from DENTIST.

Process 3.3 Confirm appointment

GET Requested Appointment Info from DENTIST. SENT Appointment Info to
DENTIST.

SENT Appointment Status to appointment Database.

Process 3.4 Update appointment

GET Updated Appointment Status from DENTIST. GET Appointment Status from
Appointment Database.

Process 4.0: Report treatment

Process 4.1 Show treatment list

GET Requested Treatment List from PATIENT. SENT Treatment List to
PATIENT.

GET Requested Treatment List from DENTIST. SENT Treatment List to
DETNTIST.

SENT Treatment List to Treatment List Database

Process 4.2 Record treatment

GET Requested Treatment Info from PATIENT. SENT Treatment Info to
PATIENT.

SENT Treatment Info to Treatment Database.

Process 4.3 Verify treatment

GET Requested Treatment Info from DENTIST. SENT Treatment Info to
DENTIST.

SENT Verified treatment Info to Treatment Database. GET Treatment Info
from Treatment Database.

Process 4.4 confirm treatment

GET Requested Treatment from PATIENT. SENT Confirmed Treatment to
PATIENT.

GET Requested Treatment from DENTIST. SENT Confirmed Treatment to
DENTIST.

SENT Confirmed Treatment to Treatment Database. GET Treatment from
Treatment Database.

Process 5.0: Manage treatment

Process 5.1 Show treatment

GET Requested Treatment Info from PATIENT. SENT Treatment Info to
PATIENT.

GET Requested Treatment Info from DENTIST. SENT Treatment Info to
DENTIST.

GET Treatment from Treatment Database.

Process 5.2 Show dentist list

GET Treatment Id from DENTIST. GET Requested Dentist List from DENTIST.

SENT Dentist List to DENTIST. SENT Treatment Id to Treatment Database.

Process 5.3 Assign dentist to handle treatment

GET Dentist Id from DENTIST. SENT Dentist Id to Treatment Database.
GET Treatment Info from Treatment Database.

Process 5.4 Update the complete status of the treatment

GET Completed Treatment Status Update from DENTSIT.

SENT Updated Treatment Complete Status to DENTIST.

SENT Treatment Complete Status to Treatment Database.

11.3 Entity Relationship Diagram

Figure 60 show ER diagram of dental management system

[]

Figure 58: Entity relationship diagram of Dental Management System

Figure 58 is an ER diagram that describes system data schema in
graphical form. ER diagram shows relationship among dentist, patient,
admin, and appointment. In each entity, it represents attributes that
needed to be store in entities. Each attribute is the information that
system needs to store in order to operate the process in dental
management system.

11.4 Data Dictionary

Table 4: Data dictionary for Dentist

+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Dentist                                                                                               |
+:=================:+:=====================:+:=================:+:=================:+:=================:+
| Attribute name    | Description           | Type              | Field Size        | Sample            |
+-------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Dentist_ID        | Id of dentist         | Int               | 4                 | 1                 |
+-------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Dentist_name      | First name of the     | Varchar           | 50                | John              |
|                   | dentist               |                   |                   |                   |
+-------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Dentist_lastname  | Last name of the      | Varchar           | 50                | Newton            |
|                   | dentist               |                   |                   |                   |
+-------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Dentist_username  | Username of the       | Varchar           | 50                | John11            |
|                   | dentist               |                   |                   |                   |
+-------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Dentist_password  | Password of the       | Varchar           | 50                | B14141414         |
|                   | dentist user          |                   |                   |                   |
+-------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+

Table 4 shows data dictionary for dentist, which is one of the most
important things in the ER diagram for the system. In the table, it
shows Types of data, description, field size, and example of each.

Table 5: Data Dictionary for Patient

+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Patient                                                                                                    |
+:==========================+:==================+:==================+:==================+:===================+
| Attribute name            | Description       | Type              | Field Size        | Sample             |
+---------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+
| Patient_ID                | Id of the patient | int               | 4                 | 11                 |
+---------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+
| Patient_name              | Name of the       | Varchar           | 50                | Bob                |
|                           | patient           |                   |                   |                    |
+---------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+
| Patient_lastname          | Last name of the  | Varchar           | 50                | Micky              |
|                           | patient           |                   |                   |                    |
+---------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+
| Patient_address           | Address of the    | Varchar           | 100               | 110/11 Bangkok     |
|                           | patient           |                   |                   | Thailand           |
+---------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+
| Patient_tel               | Telephone number  | int               | 15                | 0817821212         |
|                           | of the patient    |                   |                   |                    |
+---------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+
| Patient_email             | Email of the      | Varchar           | 50                | Asssdfov@gmail.com |
|                           | patient           |                   |                   |                    |
+---------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+
| Patient_age               | Age of the        | int               | 3                 | 23                 |
|                           | patient           |                   |                   |                    |
+---------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+
| Patient_birthday          | Birthday date of  | date              | -                 | 20/02/2020         |
|                           | the patient       |                   |                   |                    |
+---------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+
| Patient_emergency_contact | Emergency contact | int               | 20                | 0818089822         |
|                           | of the patient    |                   |                   |                    |
+---------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+
| Patient_username          | Username of the   | Varchar           | 50                | Booo1121           |
|                           | patient           |                   |                   |                    |
+---------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+
| Patient_password          | Password of the   | Varchar           | 50                | Bob1212121         |
|                           | patient           |                   |                   |                    |
+---------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+

Table 5 shows data dictionary of patient which are Patient_ID,
Patient_name, Patient_lastname, Patient_address, Patient_tel,
Patient_email, Patient_age, Patient_birthday, Patient_emergency_contact.
And it also describes the types, description, field size, and example of
each.

Table 6: Data Dictionary for Admin

+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Admin                                                                                             |
+:==================+:==================+:==================+:==================+:==================+
| Attribute name    | Description       | Type              | Field Size        | Sample            |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Admin_ID          | Id of the admin   | int               | 4                 | 90                |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Admin_username    | Username of admin | Varchar           | 50                | Ad123             |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Admin_password    | Password of admin | Varchar           | 50                | Ad12345           |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+

The table above shows data dictionary of admin which are Admin_ID,
Admin_username, and Admin_password. It also explains description, type
of data, field size, and example of each.

Table 7: Data Dictionary for Appointment

+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Appointments                                                                                          |
+:======================+:==================+:==================+:==================+:==================+
| Attribute name        | Description       | Type              | Field Size        | Sample            |
+-----------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Appointment_ID        | Id of the         | int               | 4                 | 52                |
|                       | appointment       |                   |                   |                   |
+-----------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Patient_ID            | Id of the patient | int               | 5                 | 23                |
+-----------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Appointment_date      | Appointment date  | date              | -                 | 20/02/2020        |
+-----------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Appointment_time      | Appointment time  | time              | -                 | 13.00 pm          |
+-----------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Appointment_duraition | Appointment       | time              | -                 | 30 mins           |
|                       | duration          |                   |                   |                   |
+-----------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+

It shows data dictionary of appointment which are Appointment_ID,
Patient_ID, Appointment_date, Appointment_time, and
Appointment_duration. It also shows description, type of data, field
size, and example of each.

12. 
    Detailed Design of the System

Web design

The customers are allowed to access and book an appointment in our
website without logging in. There is a registration and logging in
system for those who want to be in our system and rebook the appointment
in the future. The website is divided into two interfaces which are;

- Customer user interface: Home page, registration page, log in page,
  About us, contact, services, prices, book now

- Admin user interface: Database interface, log in page, manage page for
  users and appointments

Testing plan

This project conducted the test on local computers first to ensure that
all the features were working well. Some bugs were found during local
testing. After debugging, we uploaded all our data to the server and
tested it again. If certain changes had to be made to the interface, it
had to be on the server data.

Security Design

All groups of users such as our customers, managers and staff have
different interfaces. All the interfaces can be logged in only using the
unique ID and password. For example, a customer isn’t given access to
the manager’s interface.

System requirement

- Hardware requirement: Our website is uploaded to an online platform.
  We have made it available for all device that connect to the internet
  such as laptop, mobile phone, etc.

- Software requirement: Our web application is hosted on a web-based
  server. It can be used on most web browsers such as Google Chrome,
  Firefox etc. Also, on mobile phone such as Safari.

13. User interface manual

Scheduling System

Step 1: Patient can give information

[Graphical user interface, text, application, website Description
automatically generated]

Figure 59: Information of patient required

Figure 59: required patient to insert their information into the system,
which are Name, Email, address

Step 2: Patient can register/ login to the system

[Graphical user interface, text, website Description automatically
generated]

Figure 60: Register page

On the page above the users can register their account if they don’t
have one yet. The registration from requires their Username, Email,
Password, and Password verification before they can click register
account. As we can see in the picture, it also guides the users that if
they already have an account, they can click on the Login and will be
directed to Login page.

[Graphical user interface, website Description automatically
generated]Figure 61: Log in page

The above picture illustrates the Login page for the users. In this page
they are required to use the Username and Password that they registered
with and have to use the same to get through the Login page. Below it
has a guideline asking the users if they have an account or not, if they
don’t and wish to make one can click on the Sign Up and create an
account otherwise can click on Home and direct to Website.

Step 3: Patient access to home page

[A screenshot of a computer screen Description automatically generated]

Figure 62: Home page

The picture above is the Home page of the website where there is a
navigation bar indicating different functions such as home, about us,
services, prices, contact, register, login and Book now. Above of the
navigation bar we can see on the left side there is an indication to the
email of the dental clinic and their location where as on the right hand
side there is a line saying Hello, followed by the username and if an
unidentified user is serving the website it will show anonymous user and
with a logout button being right with it.

Step 4: Patient can book date and time and give an appointment detail

[Graphical user interface, text, application, website Description
automatically generated]

Figure 63: Booking page

The picture above illustrates the booking form for booking an
appointment. It requires the users to fill the form with their name,
phone number, email, address, time slot that they want to book, date
they want to book, a message box is provided for the users to write
about their problem and the treatment they want to get and click book
now. Once the book now button is clicked, a message will be sent to
clinic’s email.

Step 5: Dentist get a notification from patient through email and stuff/
dentist can see appointment from patient

[A screenshot of a computer screen Description automatically generated]

Figure 64: Inbox to receive appointment request and contact by patients

The appointment email will be sent to admin and dentist which will be
show as Figure 66.

Step 6: Patient wait for the confirmation

[Graphical user interface, application, website Description
automatically generated]

Figure 65: Review appointment information but appointment to be
confirmed manually

The dentist or admin will contact to the customer by telephone or email
manually.

Get in touch (Not register yet)

Step1: Patient can reach out to the system

[A screenshot of a computer screen Description automatically generated]

Figure 66: Send message

The picture above shows the contact page for the users. As we can see it
has a form which requires users’ name, email and a message regarding
what they want to contact about and once the send message is clicked the
message will be sent to the clinic’s email.

Step 2: The information from patient will sent to the dentist via email.

[Graphical user interface, website Description automatically generated]

Figure 67: Contact page

Step 3: Dentist can contact patient via information that patient
provides (Tel and email)

[A screenshot of a computer screen Description automatically generated]

Figure 68: Inbox of appointment

About us

System provides information about the clinic overall information

[Graphical user interface, website Description automatically generated]

Figure 69: About us

In the About Us page we provide the information regarding the dental
clinic with a little bit of their information being displayed and have
the statistics for the dental clinic like how many patients they have
treated, how experienced their dentists are, how modern their equipment
is

Dentist details

[Graphical user interface, website Description automatically generated]

Figure 70: Our dentist

When we scroll down the About Us page, we come to know about the
dentists who are working in the clinic. Their information will be
represented by their name and a little information about them.

Services details: General dental, filling, orthodontics, teething
whitening, teeth cleaning, root canal treatment, dental for kids.

[Graphical user interface, website Description automatically generated]

Figure 71: Our services

Price

The figure above represent the services provided by the clinic. As we
can see

[Graphical user interface, text Description automatically generated]

Figure 72: Prices

The above picture displays the prices of the services provided by the
clinic. As we can see there are total of 9 services displayed under the
service name and its prices are shown respectively next to them under
the heading name Price.

Admin

Admin site

Step 1: Admin login to the system

[Graphical user interface, website Description automatically generated]

Figure 73: Login page for admin and dentist

The following page shown on above is the Login page for admin of the
system to administrate the system and here in our system dentist and the
admin are the same person.

Step 2: Admin view details

[Graphical user interface, website Description automatically generated]

Figure 74: Site administration

After logging in, the admin will get to see the site administration as
shown in the picture. In the picture it shows the site administration of
users, appointments and groups. Where Users come under authentication
and authorization and appointments are under website.

Step 2.1: Admin views patient registered information

[Graphical user interface, website Description automatically generated]

Figure 75: Show the user who register to our system

The above picture shows the number of users who registered, and login
and we can see the difference between admin account and users account by
seeing their staff status. As users are people getting services and not
giving services, so it is obvious that their staff status will not be
active.

Step 2.2(a): Admin manage user in system

[A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically generated]

Figure 76: Admin site for managing user in system

Going further while checking the users’ profile, the admin can check the
user information by seeing their username alongside with password being
encrypted to protect their privacy. As we move down, we can see their
personal information and permissions they have for the website.

Step 2.2(b): Admin manage user in system

[Graphical user interface, text, application Description automatically
generated]

Figure 77: Show date of last login and time

At the end of the users’ page, the admin can also see that when was the
date and time the user created an account and can also see the latest
login by the users’ and their time of login as well.

Step 2.3(a): Admin views appointment details

[Graphical user interface, application Description automatically
generated]

Figure 78: Appointment list

Step 2.3(b): Admin views appointment details

Under the appointments section, when we go further, we can see the
appointment list or the list of customers who booked an appointment
through the website.

[Graphical user interface, text, website Description automatically
generated]Figure 79: Appointment information form

This is the appointment information, which is visible only to the admin,
they can see the whole information of the users such as their name,
phone number, email, address, their choice of schedule, their choice of
date and the message the wrote.

Conclusion

To conclude, the introduced system, Dental Management System is targeted
for patients so that they can provide a better customer service to their
customers by providing appointment management system so the patient can
have a better experience for dental clinic. Moreover, the system aims to
convenient admin and dentist to manage their customers and their
information.

Achievements

- Customers have better experience to book an appointment at dental
  clinic. They can save time and money by using this website to book
  their appointment. With dental management system, user can access and
  find out about the clinic much easier without actual going to the
  clinic.

- Dental management system can manage their customers/ patients easier
  and faster. Dental management system help dentist to categorize,
  arrange and store the appointment by the help of digital and
  technology such as database management system.

- For us, we increased our technical skills on working through the
  development and implementation stage of web-application building. We
  have learned many new things regarding PHP programming, HTML, Django,
  Mysql, Python, and CSS programming languages. We gained more knowledge
  about the clinical industry and dental industry by researching on
  people, website, internet, etc. Finally, we have done our best in
  making this project to complete.

Difficulties

We had difficulties for working on the database for sending and storing
the problems. We also had difficulties in making the web application
responsive to be used in most of the electronic devices. We had to learn
how to use the web host for uploading our files on the online database,
which was confusing at first, but we started to understand it as we
worked on it. Implement some new features on the web application was
difficult because it affected some other functions in the application as
well.

Recommendation

The system requires improvements in certain parts of the system. Some of
these improvements include:

- Integrating online payment system during checkouts for the customers.

- Management system for supply in clinic

- Chat system to interact with patient in case they are having
  inquiries.

- May concern inventory and maintenance system for the dental clinic
  management system. (Going to be senior project 2)

References

[1]https://web.facebook.com/%E0%B8%84%E0%B8%A5%E0%B8%B4%E0%B8%99%E0%B8%B4%E0%B8%81%E0%B8%97%E0%B8%B1%E0%B8%99%E0%B8%95%E0%B8%81%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%A1%E0%B8%8A%E0%B9%89%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%87%E0%B8%99%E0%B9%89%E0%B8%AD%E0%B8%A2-1683401661959889/?ref=page_internal

Accessed 15 June 2020

[2] https://www.pidcdental.com

Accessed 20 June 2020

[3] www.bwcdentalclinic.com

Accessed 20 June 2020

[4] https://www.bdmswellness.com/

Accessed 21 June 2020
