--- page 1 ---
 
Assumption University 
Vincent Mary School of Science and technology 
Department of Computer Science 
CS4200 SENIOR PROJECT II 
LINE Chatbot for Coupon Customer 
 
Project Advisor:  A. Chayapol Moemeng 
Project Committee:   Dr. Benjawan Srisura 
Asst. Prof. Dr. Paitoon Porntrakoon 
 
Submitted by:   Ms. Apitsara Choppradit 5710497 
Mr. Tanapat Limtemsap 6014216 
 
Submitted in Partial Fulfillment of the Requirement for  
the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Computer Science 
Semester 1/2021 
 
 

--- page 2 ---
 
Senior Project Approval  
Project title:   LINE Chatbot for Coupon Customer 
By:    Ms. Apitsara Choppradit 5710497 
    Mr. Tanapat Limtemsap 6014216  
Project Advisor:   A. Chayapol Moemeng  
Academic Year:   1/2021 
 
The Senior Project committee’s cooperation between the Department of Computer 
Science and Information Technology, Vincent Mary School of Science and Technology, 
Assumption University had approved this Senior Project. The Senior Project in partial fulfillment 
of the requirement for the degree of Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Information 
technology.  
 
Approval Committee: 
 
 
 
(A. Chayapol Moemeng)  
         Project Advisor 
 
 
 
 
(Dr. Benjawan Srisura)     (Assf. Prof. Dr. Patioon Porntrakoon)  
     Committee Member            Committee Member 
 
 
 
 
--- page 3 ---
 
Abstract 
 
Digital transformation is quite a common word nowadays. Many businesses try to adapt 
to current society and improve by combining the usage of digital and technology because of 
easily collecting and analyzing data to improve their business process. The One Petroleum is also 
one of them. They try to incorporate the chatbot into managing and generating coupon processes. 
But some parts of these processes still require the labor of humans to perform and take more 
time. So, this project is developed in order to improve these processes to be more automatic, 
more digital and reduce the human labor and time spent. 
The project which we are developing will be divided into two major parts – LINE chatbot 
and Web Application – as well as the rework of coupon form. The project is developed by using 
Next.js framework and MongoDB to build the web app because of convenience and low budget 
in development to deploy on Vercel Server. And creating LINE chatbot by using LINE 
Developers Platform’s Messaging API. 
The result of this project is that the site operator or business owner comment that some words 
on user interfaces are hard to understand or not relate in the real working environment. 
In conclusion, there are some benefits gained from implementing this project. The project 
can reduce the human work and time spent on generating and managing coupon processes. It also 
makes the processes to be more convenient as it allows employees to send pictures from the oil 
stations directly and business owners and check processes outside off the oil station’s office. 
Lastly, it also provides a better data visualization on the information at hand better than a 
collection of paper coupons to count on. 
 
--- page 4 ---
 
Table of Contents 
 Topic                   Page 
 
1. Chapter 1 – Introduction         
1.1 Problem Statement        1 
1.2 Scope of the Project        2 
 
2. Chapter 2 – Related Work         
2.1 EPR software         3 
2.2 ERP software         5 
 
3. Chapter 3 – Propose Methodology        
3.1 Hardware          7 
3.2 Software          8 
 
4. Chapter 4 – Design of the System        
4.1 Functional requirements specification      15 
 4.1.1 Stakeholders, actors, and goals      15 
 4.1.2 Use cases        17 
4.2 System design         17 
 4.2.1 Workflow of the application      18 
 4.2.2 System Architecture       19 
4.2.3 UI/UX design        20 
 4.2.3.1 Website User Interface     20 
  4.2.3.1.1 Login & Sign-up Page    20 
  4.2.3.1.2 Dashboard Page     21 
  4.2.3.1.3 Customer Management    22 
  4.2.3.1.4 Coupon Management    24 
  4.2.3.1.5 Admin LINE Management    32 
  4.2.3.1.6 User Management     33 
4.2.3.2 LINE Bot Command on LINE Application   35 
4.2.4 Database design        38 
 
5. Chapter 5 – Result         39 
 
6. Chapter 6 – Conclusion         
6.1 Conclusion of the Project        43 
6.2 Future Work         44 
 
7. References          45 
--- page 5 ---
 
Table of Figures 
 
Figures                   Page 
 
Figure 1.1: The Current Coupon Form       1 
Figure 2.1: Odoo Inventory         3 
Figure 2.2:  Odoo Coupon Program – Create New Coupon Program   4 
Figure 2.3: Odoo Coupon Program – Generate Coupons     4 
Figure 2.4: Odoo Coupon Program – List of all Generated Coupon s   5 
Figure 2.5: ChatCompose Logo        5 
Figure 2.6: Configure Webhook on ChatCompose to link to LINE Messaging API  6 
Figure 2.7: Configure Webhook on LINE Developer Console    6 
Figure 2.8: Create the Script Diagram to Direct the bot’s Conversation Flow  7 
Figure 3.1: React Logo         9 
Figure 3.2: Next.js Logo         10 
Figure 3.3: Visual Studio Code Logo        10 
Figure 3.4: MongoDB Logo         11 
Figure 3.5: NoSQLBooster for MongoDB Logo      12 
Figure 3.6: Vercel Logo         12 
Figure 3.7: LINE Logo         13 
Figure 3.8: Ngrok Logo         14 
Figure 3.9: Material-UI Logo         14 
Figure 4.1: Use Cases Diagram        18 
Figure 4.2: Dataflow Diagram        19 
Figure 4.3: System Architecture        20 
Figure 4.4: Login Page         21 
Figure 4.5: Dashboard Page         22 
Figure 4.6: Customer Management        22 
--- page 6 ---
 
Figure 4.7: Customer Information – Add New Customer Page (1)    23 
Figure 4.8: Customer Information – Add New Customer Page (2)    23 
Figure 4.9: Customer Information – Add Customer’s Car License Plate   24 
Figure 4.10: Customer Information – Updating Customer Page    24 
Figure 4.11: Confirmation of Deleting Customer      25 
Figure 4.12: Coupon Management – List of All Coupons     25 
Figure 4.13: Coupon Management – Generating Coupon Process    26 
Figure 4.14: Generating Coupon Process – Choose Customer    26 
Figure 4.15: Generating Coupon Process – Purchased Coupon History   27 
Figure 4.16: Generating Coupon Process – Input Coupon Price & Amount (1)  27 
Figure 4.17: Generating Coupon Process – Input Coupon Price & Amount (2)  28 
Figure 4.18: Generating Coupon Process – Summarize All Issued Coupons   28 
Figure 4.19: Generating Coupon Process – Alert to Notify Finished Generating Coupon 29 
Figure 4.20: Generating Coupon Process Finish – Button to Print Page or Reset  29 
Figure 4.21: Coupon Management – Manage Missing Coupons    30 
Figure 4.22: Missing Coupon Management – Filtered All Coupons in System  30 
Figure 4.23: Missing Coupon Management – Choose Missing Coupons (1)   31 
Figure 4.24: Missing Coupon Management – Choose Missing Coupon (2)   31 
Figure 4.25: Missing Coupon Management –  
Confirm & Alert for Update Missing Coupon    32 
Figure 4.26: Coupon Management – Delete Coupon      32 
Figure 4.27: Delete Coupon – Filtering & Choose Deleting Coupon   33 
Figure 4.28: Delete Coupon – Confirm to Delete Coupon     33 
Figure 4.29: Print Coupon Page        34 
Figure 4.30: Layout on Paper When Printing Coupons     34 
Figure 4.31: Admin LINE Management – List of All Admins in LINE Group  35 
Figure 4.32: Admin LINE Management – Adding New Admin LINE   35
--- page 7 ---
 
Figure 4.33: Admin LINE Management – 
Choose the Customers that Admin LINE will supervise   36 
Figure 4.34: User Management – List of All Admin for Website    36 
Figure 4.35: User Management – Adding New User to Website    37 
Figure 4.36: User Management – Updating New User to Website    37 
Figure 4.37: Bot Command – Inquire for GroupId      38 
Figure 4.38: Bot Detect Information from QR-Code on Used Coupon’s Picture  38 
Figure 4.39: Bot Detect Used Coupon from Picture      39 
Figure 4.40: Bot Command – Inquire for Daily Total Value of Used Coupons  39 
Figure 4.41: Bot Command – Inquire for Current User’s LINE Group   40 
Figure 4.42: Database – Entity Relational Diagram      41 
Figure 5.1: Sidebar          42 
Figure 5.2: used coupons record        42 
Figure 5.3: unused coupons record        43 
Figure 5.4: missing coupons record        43 
Figure 5.5: Purchase Coupon – “ราคาคูปอง”, “วันที่ซื้อ”      43 
Figure 5.6: Purchase Coupon – “ราคา”       44 
Figure 5.7: Purchase Coupon – alert        45 
Figure 5.8: Print Page – “ปริ้นท์ส าเร็จ”        45 
Figure 5.9: missing coupon page – “เลือกวันที่ต้องการ”       45 
Figure 5.10: Sign Up page Deleted        46 
       
 
--- page 8 ---
1 
 
Chapter 1: Introduction 
 
Everything nowadays is becoming digital. Digital transformation is like a common thing in 
this time. Many businesses try to adapt to current society and improve by combining the usage of 
digital and technology because of easily collecting and analyzing data to improve their business 
process. One Petroleum is also one of them. They try to incorporate the chatbot into managing 
and generating coupon processes. But some parts of these processes still require the labor of 
humans to perform and spend more time to perform. 
 
1.1 Problem Statement 
The One Petroleum - the oil station - that we are developing this project for is currently 
utilizing the LINE bot in their daily coupon management. But the bot is merely receiving the 
value of coupon that user in the LINE group typing but cannot detect data from picture that was 
sent along with. The bot is also able to reply back the total value of coupon use in one day when 
it was asked by business owner. So, this project aims to improve the current bot to be able to 
detect data from the picture of coupon and add more functions to the LINE bot. 
Another problem is regarding the inconvenience of the current method that the One 
Petroleum is facing with. As of right now, the coupon is paper-based and all the process of 
generating it have to be done by hand of the assistant and sign signature by business owner to 
approve the legitimation of coupons. This process takes a long time when customers purchase a 
big chuck of coupons.  
Moreover, the process of managing said coupons is also hard as well. Since the coupon is a 
ready-made coupon that was sold in book and then are branded by company’s marks and 
signature as the sign that this coupon belongs to the One Petroleum. The current process of 
managing coupons is that at the end of the day the business owner will inquire the bot for the 
total value of coupon in that day as well as comparing with the physical one that was counted by 
hand by the front cashier at the oil station and the picture of coupons that was send it the LINE 
group chat as well. The current process is much vulnerable to human errors. All of the above 
reasons make it hard to keep track of when the coupon was generated. Who generated it? And 
who is recording it when the picture of coupons is sent into the LINE group chat for bot to 
receive?  
Figure 1.1: The Current Coupon Form

--- page 9 ---
2 
 
Therefore, all problems can be solving or lessened with this project by developing web 
applications and improving the LINE bot for the entire process of generating and managing 
coupons to be more digital and autonomous. 
 
1.2 Scope of the project 
The project that we are developing will be divided into two major parts – LINE chatbot and 
Web Application – as well as the rework of coupon form. 
Firstly, the rework of coupon form. The new system will not use the ready-made coupon 
book and a new design of coupon will be used instead. The new coupon will consist of QR-code 
for the bot to be able to retrieve data from when used coupons are taken a picture and are sent to 
the LINE group chat for the bot to detect it. The information such as the unique id of each 
coupon, the name of customer, the coupon’s price, the generated date, the running numbers of 
the coupon on one series will be printed on the coupon, as well as the signature place for 
business owner and the place that the license car number will be write when it is used. 
For the LINE chatbot part, the bot will be able to detect the QR-code from the picture send, 
decode it, and further use the decoded text to retrieve data from database. The bot will be able to 
reply back when users have inquired for certain information such as the total unused coupon for 
one particular customer, the LINE group ID, the LINE’s userId belong to one user and all 
commands that the bot can handle. 
For the web application part, the web application will serve as the management software 
online that requires the user account to login to be able to access the web application. If a new 
user with no account or new employee, then they can sign up to create an account. 
First, the application will be able to show the summary of data in system in the form of 
graph, data table or number such as daily coupon usage, the total value of unused coupon for all 
customers or each customer and all oldest purchased unused coupons per customers. Second, the 
CRUD operation of customers management as well as coupons. Additionally for coupon 
management, the users will be able to update the status of coupon if it when missing as well 
generating new coupons on the application and print it when customers make an order to 
business owner or employees. Third, the application will have admin management for business 
owners to grant the different levels of admin rights to limit the abilities of certain users’ roles 
when using application or the LINE chatbot such as assistants, cashiers, or customers. Lastly, the 
user management will allow business owner to manage (create/read/update/delete) the accounts 
of all users in web application and for employees’ level users to change password or logout of 
application. 
The application can be used only on the online mode. The computer that will run the 
application must be connected to the internet to be able to access the application and pull data 
from the cloud database server. 
--- page 10 ---
3 
Chapter 2: Related Work 
This section will show the related work that currently existed and similar to our project. 
So, we will present it, respectively. 
2.1 ERP Software 
The other related work to our project is ERP software. The ERP software or Enterprise Resource 
Planning is a type of software that organizations use to manage day-to-day business activities 
such as accounting, procurement, project management, risk management and compliance, and 
supply chain operations. A complete ERP suite also includes enterprise performance 
management, software that helps plan, budget, predict, and report on an organization’s financial 
results. 
 In our case, we the example of ERP that related the most to our project is Odoo ERP. 
Odoo ERP is designed to help companies improve their internal operations, specifically by 
providing them with the most efficient stocking methods imaginable. Users can wisely manage 
their warehouse, and maximize their inventory, by reducing stock levels and avoiding 
unnecessary stock-outs. There are two features that related to our project which are Odoo 
Inventory and Odoo Coupon Programs. 
 First, Odoo Inventory use efficient stocking method and improve all the internal 
operations. Odoo's double-entry inventory has no stock input, output, or transformation. Instead, 
all operations are stock moves between locations. This feature allows users to add stock or re-
stock the item in the system and access all of items in the system at one location. But, for our 
project we will use this feature to store the customers' data instead. 
 
Figure 2.1: Odoo Inventory

--- page 11 ---
4 
Second, Odoo Coupon Programs allow users to create the coupons to be used when 
purchase the products from the online store. Users can create coupon programs (coupon with 
specific condition). User can select the product for which the coupon has to be issued and its 
conditions that it can be used. Users can also set the price and validity duration of coupons as 
well as the discount that the coupons will give. In generating coupons, User will have to add the 
number of coupons to be generated or the number of selected customers that can be filtered to 
the specific customer based on regions or anything that is recorded in the inventory. Users can 
also see the details of all coupons as well as send the coupons to customers if they have an e-mail 
contact. 
 
 
Figure 2.2: Odoo Coupon Programs – Create New Coupon Program  
 
Figure 2.3: Odoo Coupon Programs – Generate Coupons 

--- page 12 ---
5 
 
Figure 2.4: Odoo Coupon Programs – List of all Generated Coupons 
  
2.2  ChatCompose 
ChatCompose is a ChatBot platform for marketing and support. Through the platform, 
users or developers can create their own chatbots, design conversation scripts and install their 
bots to interact with the clients of their business through popular channels such as Facebook, 
LINE, Slack, WhatsApp, your WordPress website, Shopify and much more. 
Figure 2.5: ChatCompose Logo 
 
ChatCompose allows the users or developers to create their chatbot by creating the script 
that acts as the direction of conversation that the bot will provide to user to follow. When users 
ask something to bot, the bot can reply as messages, media (Photos, Videos or Files), selectable 
options, payment link or map location and etc. to users. Or collecting data from users by bot 
using the form. ChatCompose have  LiveChat feature that enable to talk to your users Live or 
Transfer the conversation to another service. Moreover, the bot can send emails with more 
instructions or more information to users and establish a call between you and the user. Al l of 
the above can be implement as the components. 

--- page 13 ---
6 
To connect the bot on ChatCompose to LINE bot (Messaging API), developers have to 
register LINE bot on LINE Developers Console which can be done by following the tutorial on 
LINE Developers Platform or various sources. Then developers can configure the webhook 
which allow ChatCompose  to be integrated to LINE by copy & paste Channel access token and 
Channel secret from LINE bot on LINE developer Console to ChatCompose console. After that, 
copying the webhook URL that ChatCompose automatically generated and pasting into webhook 
URL on LINE Developers Console. 
 
Figure 2.6: Configure Webhook on ChatCompose to link to LINE Messaging API 
 
Figure 2.7: Configure Webhook on LINE Developer Console. 

--- page 14 ---
7 
 
 
Figure 2.8: Create the Script Diagram to Direct the bot’s Conversation Flow 

--- page 15 ---
8 
Chapter 3: Proposed Methodology 
 
 As we state in the problem statement, the problem that we aim to solve is to lessen 
problems and improve the current method utilized by the oil stations. From manually generating 
and managing coupons by hand and ready-made coupons to customed design coupons. To 
improve the processes of generating and managing coupons and managing data of customers, 
admin, and users to be more convenient and bring the automate process into the current 
workflow of business. Our group will solve the problem by developing a management system 
application by using Next.js framework with MongoDB as cloud database and the LINE chatbot 
on LINE application. This application will be developed to be unique only to be operated for the 
One Petroleum and listed a necessary hardware as well. 
 
3.1 Hardware 
 This section will describe a various device that the team is using on this project. 
3.1.1 Smartphone & Tablets 
 The smartphone and tablets that have LINE application installed are needed for able to 
communicate with the bot. The smartphone and tablet can be of any models such as iPhones, 
iPads, Samsung, etc. or smartphone that operate on iOS or Android can be used as well. As long 
as smartphones and tablets are able to run LINE application. 
 To be able to communicate with the bot, users have to add the bot as friend and talk to it 
one-on-one or add the bot as the members of a LINE group then users can talk to the bot 
according to the commands that have been set.  
3.1.2 Printer 
 The printer will be needed to print the coupons out in the process of generating coupons. 
The printer can be the typical home printer of any model. But the printers have to be connected 
to PC or laptops via USB port or Wi-Fi for printing the coupons.  
 
--- page 16 ---
9 
3.2 Software 
3.2.1 React.js 
 React.js is an open-source, front end, JavaScript library for building user interfaces or UI 
components. It is maintained by Facebook and a community of individual developers and 
companies. React.js can be used as a base in the development of single-page or mobile 
applications. However, React.js is only concerned with state management and rendering that 
state to the DOM, so creating React applications usually requires the use of additional libraries 
for routing. React.js is based on HTML/CSS. So, most of the users that have an experience to 
write a web application to use React.js as Library. 
 
Figure 3.1: React.JS Logo 
 Why do we choose to React.js? Because React.js is front end, JavaScript library that 
aims for both new and experienced programmers to be able to convert ideas into code easily. It is 
currently the most popular JavaScript library of right now to use as a front-end library for web 
application development. By using React.js which is use JSX - an XML markdown language for 
developing UIs which replaces HTML and CSS -, we can convert code from web application 
version to a hybrid app be able to run on iOS or PC application by using React Native. Some 
other hybrid mobile frameworks use web-based components which render HTML and CSS, and 
ultimately provide a sluggish user experience. Whereas React.js use JSX, Ul components 
are compiled into native platform-specific components which create a fast and familiar 
experience for end-users.

--- page 17 ---
10 
3.2.2 Next.js 
 Next.js is an open-source React front-end development web framework that enables 
functionality such as server-side rendering and generating static websites for React based web 
applications. It is a production-ready framework that allows developers to quickly create static 
and dynamic JAM stack websites and is used widely by many large companies.[4] Next.js is one 
of several recommended "toolchains" available when starting a new React app, all of which 
provide a layer of abstraction to aid in common tasks. Traditional React apps render all their 
content in the client-side browser, Next.js is used to extend this functionality to include 
applications rendered on the server side. 
Figure 3.2: Next.js Logo 
 
Why do we choose Next.js? Because Next.js is fast because of server-side rendering that 
allows our application to render data from database faster. It also takes care of many 
performance optimizations for us, giving us performance as a default. Moreover, Next.js is easy 
to deploy full stack React application online by using Vercel. Next.js also gives us a quick and 
uncomplicated way to build APIs within our applications when we create API to get data from 
MongoDB. 
 
3.2.3 Visual Studio Code 
 Visual Studio Code is a freeware source-code editor made by Microsoft for Windows, 
Linux and macOS. There are features that include support for debugging, syntax highlighting, 
intelligent code completion, snippets, code refactoring, and embedded Git. Users can change the 
theme, keyboard shortcuts, preferences, and install extensions that add additional functionality. 
Figure 3.3: Visual Studio Code Logo

--- page 18 ---
11 
 Why do we choose Visual Studio Code as our text editor? Because, Visual Studio 
Code is a lightning-fast source code editor, perfect for day-to-day use. With support for hundreds 
of languages, VS Code helps us be instantly productive with syntax highlighting, bracket-
matching, auto-indentation, box-selection, snippets, and more. Visual Studio Code includes 
built-in support for IntelliSense code completion. VS Code has support for Git so we can work 
with source control without leaving the editor including viewing pending changes different and 
choose what line of code to accept either it is current or in-coming. 
 
3.2.4 MongoDB 
 MongoDB is a document-oriented NoSQL database used for high volume data storage. 
Instead of using tables and rows as in the traditional relational databases, MongoDB makes use 
of collections and documents. Documents consist of key-value pairs which are the basic unit of 
data in MongoDB. Collections contain sets of documents and functions which are the equivalent 
of relational database tables. 
 
Figure 3.4: MongoDB Logo 
 
 Why do we choose MongoDB as cloud database server? Because MongoDB is a 
NoSQL type database, instead of having data in a relational type of format, it stores the data in 
documents. It stores data in flexible, JSON-like documents. This makes MongoDB very flexible 
and adaptable to the genuine business world situation and requirements. The document structure 
is more in line with how we construct the classes and objects in Next.js. And there is no need for 
the classes or objects in our application to be rows and columns, but it is a clear structure with 
key-value pairs instead. We also do not need to have a schema defined beforehand. Instead, we 
can create the fields that we will use on the fly while writing codes. Lastly, the data model in 
MongoDB allows us to store arrays, and other more complex structures more easily.

--- page 19 ---
12 
3.2.5 NoSQLBooster for MongoDB 
 NoSQLBooster for MongoDB (formerly MongoBooster) is a shell-centric cross-platform 
GUI tool for MongoDB v2.6-4.4, which provides comprehensive server monitoring tools, fluent 
query builder, SQL query, query code, task scheduling, server monitoring tools, ESNext support, 
and true IntelliSense experience. 
 
 
Figure 3.5: NoSQLBooster for MongoDB Logo 
Why do we choose NoSQLBooster for MongoDB? Because, as time passes by in-
between state of developing the application, we found that go back and forth to look for data or 
documents insert/delete/update on MongoDB online editor are troublesome task and repetitive. It 
is also hard to look at all documents since it shows in the object format. NoSQLBooster for 
MongoDB offers true IntelliSense experience. The built-in language service knows all possible 
completions, methods, properties, variables, keywords, even the MongoDB collection names, 
field names, and operators. The IntelliSense suggestions pop up as we type to write it like a code 
or query. Furthermore, we can all document in collections as table like we familiar with 
relational model or as JSON format to be use in writing with Next.js. 
 
3.2.6 Vercel 
 Vercel is a cloud platform for static sites, hybrid apps, and Serverless Functions that fit 
perfectly with workflow. It enables developers to host websites and web services that deploy 
instantly, scale automatically, and requires no supervision, all with no configuration. Vercel also 
allows developers to set up their projects to their custom domain (or a free now.sh suffixed URL) 
along with free automatic SSL which puts a protective cover to shared encrypted data between 
the server and browser. 
 
Figure 3.6: Vercel Logo

--- page 20 ---
13 
 Why do we use choose Vercel to deploy the application? Because Vercel is a cloud 
platform that links directly with Next.js. Our project uses Next,js as framework, so it is easier to 
deploy on the cloud platform that comes from the same creator and so they are compatible with 
each other. It is also easy to sign up to Vercel and free for us – the students – to deploy our 
project. Moreover, we can use GitHub to deploy an existing project – then with a deployment for 
every push – by selecting a repository from our GitHub account and then from the same place, 
set up a project to get automatic deployments via GitHub. 
 
3.2.7 LINE Developers 
LINE Developers is a portal site for developers. It contains documents and tools that will 
help the third-party developers use LINE various developer products through the LINE Platform. 
The developer products that LINE developers offer such as LINE Developers Console, LINE 
Login, LINE SDK for various platforms (iOS, Android, Unity and Flutter), LINE Front-end 
Framework (LIFF), LINE Messaging API, etc. The developer products that our team will be 
using to develop this project will be LINE Developers Console and LINE Messaging API. 
 
Figure 3.7: LINE Logo 
Why do we use choose LINE Developers to deploy the application? We choose to 
develop the chatbot on LINE platform by using LINE Developers Console and LINE Messaging 
API. Since the One Petroleum’s customers usually communicate with the business owner via 
LINE and the previous bot version are also operates on LINE application as well. We found this 
tool to be the best solution to use in this project regard to the former reasons. LINE Messaging 
API is a feature that enables exchanging LINE messages with users. This enables us to develop 
our own bot. It also allows for data to be passed between our bot server and the LINE Platform. 
The other is LINE Developers Console. We will use this to create an account and providers for 
the bot to be able to add as friend or config the bot’s settings such as channel secret, access token 
or webhook 
 

--- page 21 ---
14 
3.2.8 Ngrok 
 Ngrok is a cross-platform application that enables developers to expose a local 
development server to the Internet with minimal effort by providing local tunnelling service. It 
allows you to expose a web server running on your local machine to the internet. Ngrok makes 
the locally hosted web server appear to be hosted on a subdomain of ngrok.com, meaning that no 
public IP or domain name on the local machine is needed. 
 
Figure 3.8: Ngrok Logo 
Why do we use choose Ngrok to deploy the application? We choose ngrok to perform 
as the webhook between our in-developed application to LINE server remotely during the 
development process. Since Ngrok provides safe and secure local tunnelling to our team 
application. Ngrok is easy to be install by NPM and utilize it as well. 
 
3.2.9 Material-UI 
 Material-UI is an open-source library that allows us to import and use different 
components to create a user interface in the React applications. This saves a significant amount 
of time since the developers do not need to write everything from scratch. Material-UI widgets 
are heavily inspired by Google’s principles on building user interfaces. The components 
throughout are consistent in design and color tones, which allows the developed 
application/webpage to look aesthetically appealing. 
 
Figure 3.9: Material-UI Logo 

--- page 22 ---
15 
 Why do we use choose Material-UI to deploy the application? Because it is easy and 
free to use as it is an open-source front-end framework. Therefore, our team can design and 
develop user interface that the Next.js web application that we have developed needs. If there are 
React components that our application requires, we can just import directly to the software and 
do not have to build the components from scratch. It is, therefore, easy for developers to build 
visually appealing applications. Moreover, the components throughout are consistent in design 
and color tones so there would be no conflict or inconsistency of the user interface. Lastly, 
Material-UI also has detailed documentation that makes it easy to navigate through the 
framework. 
 
--- page 23 ---
16 
Chapter 4: Design of The System / Work 
 
This section will be divided into two sections consisting of functional requirements 
specification and system design. We will show and how the system has been designed such as 
sequence diagram, system architecture, UI/UX design and database design. So, we will present 
it, respectively. 
 
4.1. Functional Requirements Specification 
 This section will describe what this project’s requirements specification is such as 
stakeholders, actors, goals of the project and use cases. 
4.1.1 Stakeholder, Actors and Goals 
4.1.1.1 Stakeholder 
 The stakeholder in this project is the project owner or end-user, developers or 
team members and project’s advisor. 
 The first stakeholders are the project owners or end-users. They are the project 
owners who want to improve the efficiency of the current LINE bot with more features 
and on digital platforms. They are also wanting to reduce the problem that occur with the 
current situation of coupon management with current LINE bot. They are also the end-
user which will use the finished application to keep inventory at the oil station and 
increase fluency and convenience in managing coupon with digital fashion. Furthermore, 
they are the source of input regarding the application’s specifications and features. We 
inquire to the project owner what feature do they want for this application and the 
specifications of application as well as the suggestion we get from project owner during 
developing stage. 
 The second stakeholder is the developers of this project or team members. We are 
to develop the application that follows the application’s specifications from the project 
owners. We also offer specific input to project owners to suggest extra features, 
interfaces’ design, and methods to project owners as well. We are solely responsible in all 
stage of this project such proposing the first draft of application and feature to project 
owners and project’s advisor, developing the application, moderating the UI/UX usability 
testing, and lastly conducting a final testing on finished application to project 
owners/end-users. 
 The last stakeholder is the project advisor. The project advisor gives multiple 
advice to help the team during the project’s development stage such as technical advising 
or suggesting methods to solve the technical problem that the team members face during 
developing an application. 
--- page 24 ---
17 
4.1.1.2 Actors 
 The actors that have been identified as this project are the One Petroleum’s owner 
(Site Operator), employees of the One Petroleum (Assistants) and customers that 
regularly buy coupons from the owner. 
4.1.1.3 Goals 
The goals are to meet all specifications that project owner’s (The One Petroleum’s 
owner) request and any additional specifications that the developer adds and suggests to 
project owners. All features in the application must be working and provide data 
correctly. The bot also has correctly reported to the user as well as able to detect QR-code 
and decode the data from QR-code. 
In login & sign-up page, user must be able to login by using the specific username 
and password that user use to sign-up to be able to access the application. 
In dashboard page, the data must be shown correctly in the form of a graph or 
table and are in coordination with the data save on the cloud database. The data must 
show about each customer as well as the price of coupons. 
 In the customer management feature, the application must show all customers in 
system to users in the form of table. Users must be able to add/update/delete any 
customer(s) in the system. 
 In coupon management feature, the application must show all generated coupons 
in the system and its details. Users also must be able to generate coupons according to the 
status of each user. Moreover, user must be able to assign the ‘missing’ status to coupon 
when it has been notify as missing by customers. Lastly, users also must be able to 
printout the coupons via printers. All coupons must contain pictures of QR-code unique 
to each coupon. 
 In admin LINE management feature, the application must show all the admin that 
have the right to use the chatbot in LINE application in each specific LINE group. Users 
must be able to add/update/delete any admin(s) of LINE group in the system. One person 
can become an admin of many LINE groups if the oil station owner assigns him/her. 
 In user management feature, the application must show all users that have an 
account to access and use the web application. The table will show username and the time 
when that user logins into the application. Users must be able to add/update/delete any 
admin(s) of web application (account) in the system. Moreover, users must be able to 
change their password as well as logout from the web application. 
 In LINE chatbot, the bot must be able to carry out the task pertain to each 
command that has been set when the command was typed by user in LINE group. When 
sending pictures of used coupons in LINE group, the boy must be able to detect QR-code, 
retrieve the related data from database and reply back to user with those data or not when 
data have been found. 
--- page 25 ---
18 
4.1.2 Use Cases 
 In this section, we will show the use cases diagram of the coupon management inventory 
system application. 
 
Figure 4.1: Use Cases Diagram 
 
4.2 System Design 
 This section will describe how the application have been designed such as workflow of 
the application, the system architecture, the UI/UX design and the database design of the 
application. 
4.2.1 Workflow of the Application 
 In this section, we will show the workflow of the coupon management inventory system 
application with dataflow diagram. The figures below will display all the processes of 
application.  

--- page 26 ---
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4.2: Dataflow Diagram
--- page 27 ---
20 
4.2.2 System Architecture 
 This section will describe and show how the system architecture of the application works. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4.3: System Architecture 
 
The computer that connects with 
internet access to web 
application that deploy on Vercel 
server. And send request for 
open Website. 
Vercel Server 
• Bot receive data from user 
and send to server. 
• Bot send request for data 
to server 
The One Petroleum’s PC 
Line Bot 
• Bot receive data 
from server. 
• Generate reply 
message back to 
users. 
• server. 
Vercel server 
send ‘fetch’ 
request or send 
data to 
MongoDB 
cloud database 
server. 
MongoDB 
server send data 
back to Vercel 
server.  
MongoDB Cloud 
Database Server 
The computer will render 
data/pages from web application 
that deploy on Vercel server. 
User with Smartphone 
User type 
command to 
bot. 
Bot reply back to 
user 
--- page 28 ---
21 
4.2.3 UI/UX Design 
 In this section we will describe the UI/UX design of the application. The interface of all 
pages in this application will be displayed and describe in detail what interface in these pages are 
doing. 
4.2.3.1 Website User Interfaces 
4.2.3.1.1 Login & Sign-up Page 
This is the first page when I open the website, which is a login page. We can do 2 things 
on this page, sign in and sign up. We have to sign up first before login. 
Figure 4.4: Login page 
4.2.3.1.2 Dashboard Page 
After clicking the “ไปที่ dashboard” button, we will be direct to this page, dashboard page. 
This page will show 4 charts, first is a line chart that will tell us about daily income from using 
coupons of each customer. The second chart is a table chart that will tell us about which 
customer on how many coupons has left and when that customer buys the coupons. The third is 
the total value of remaining unused coupons. The last one is a table that shows which company 
has own how much coupon value. 

--- page 29 ---
22 
 
Figure 4.5: Dashboard Page 
 
4.2.3.1.3 Customer Management 
The next page is the customer management page. This page is used for registering new 
customers who would like to use coupons from the gas station. We can edit customer 
information if customers have changed to new email and so on, including deleting customers that 
are no longer the gas station partner. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4.6: Customer Management 

--- page 30 ---
23 
After clicking “เพิ่มบริษัท” Button, we will be direct to this page. We can fill in information 
some information and edit it later. The must fill field is company name, customer name, and 
contact number. If clicking “แก้ไข/เพิ่มเลขทะเบียนรถ” then the modal will show up for inputting the 
license plate of the car that the company will come to refuel, clicking “เพิ่ม” to input more license 
plate or “ลบ” to delete the license plate then clicking “ส าเร็จ” to return to registration customer 
page. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4.7: Customer Information – Add New Customer Page (1) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4.8: Customer Information – Add New Customer Page (2) 
 
--- page 31 ---
24 
 
 
 
Figure 4.9: Customer Information – Add Customer’s Car License Plate 
After click “แก้ไข” Button, the app will direct to this page every field is the same as add 
new customer except grey button “แก้รหัส.” This button is used to prevent miss clicks and change 
LINE Group ID which is an important field because if this field is wrong, the bot will not 
proceed with their work.  
Figure 4.10: Customer Information – Updating Customer Page 

--- page 32 ---
25 
This modal will show to confirm the delete action. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4.11: Confirmation of Deleting Customer  
 
4.2.3.1.4 Coupon Management 
The next page is “รายการคูปอง.” This page will show all coupons that were created on the 
website. The table contains coupon information and status of the coupon, unused, used, or 
missing. And the name of the person who generates coupons. We also can search and filter the 
coupon in order to find a specific coupon. 
 
Figure 4.12: Coupon Management - List of All Coupons 

--- page 33 ---
26 
The next page is “ซื้อคูปอง.” This page is used to generate coupons for the specific 
customer. To generate coupons, we must choose the customer first. 
 
 
 
\ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4.13: Coupon Management - Generating Coupon Process 
 
This is show if the company is just registered and does not have a buying history 
 
Figure 4.14: Generating Coupon Process – Choose Customer 
 

--- page 34 ---
27 
If the company has bought coupon. It will show a table about buying history. And how 
many coupons have left? 
 
Figure 4.15: Generating Coupon Process – Purchased Coupons History 
 
After click “ต่อไป.” We must provide how much value of each coupon and quantity. We 
can click “เพิ่ม” To add new row. The value of purchased coupons will be auto calculated and 
show below input field. 
 
Figure 4.16: Generating Coupon Process – Input Coupon Price & Amount (1) 

--- page 35 ---
28 
 
Figure 4.17: Generating Coupon Process – Input Coupon Price & Amount (2) 
 
After click “ต่อไป,” the next step will show the list of coupons that will be generated. If we 
click “ยืนยัน,” it will start generating coupons. 
 
 
Figure 4.18: Generating Coupon Process – Summarize All Issued Coupons 
 

--- page 36 ---
29 
The modal will show up that coupon is completely generated. It will show the button to 
access the print coupon page or reset the entire process.  
 
Figure 4.19: Generating Coupon Process – Alert to Notify Finished Generating Coupons 
 
Figure 4.20: Generating Coupon Process Finish – Button to Print Page or Reset 
 

--- page 37 ---
30 
The next page is “คูปองหาย.” This page is to handle coupons that have been missing. We 
use this page to prevent missing coupons from being usable. To use this page, we must filter to 
find the coupon. Choose customer, coupon value, and generated date. 
 
 
Figure 4.21: Coupon Management – Manage Missing Coupons 
 
After filtering, it will show a list of coupons. 
 
Figure 4.22: Missing Coupon Management – Filtered All Coupons in System 

--- page 38 ---
31 
 
Click the box to select coupon and click right arrow button in the between paper to move 
the coupon record. 
 
Figure 4.23: Missing Coupon Management – Choose Missing Coupons (1) 
 
 
Figure 4.24: Missing Coupon Management – Choose Missing Coupons (2) 

--- page 39 ---
32 
After that, click “ยืนยัน” To confirm the change and the alert will show up to confirm your 
choice. 
 
Figure 4.25: Missing Coupon Management – Confirm & Alert for Update Missing Coupon 
The next page is “ลบคูปอง”. This is the page that user can delete the coupons that the 
system generated in the case that users have wrongly generated for the wrong customer or wrong 
amount. To use this page, we must filter to find the coupon. Choose customer, coupon value, and 
generated date. 
 
Figure 4.26: Coupon Management – Delete Coupon 

--- page 40 ---
33 
After filtering, click the box to select coupon and click “ยืนยัน” to and the alert will show 
up to confirm your choice. 
 
Figure 4.27: Delete Coupon – Filtering & Choose Deleting Coupon 
  
 
Figure 4.28: Delete Coupon – Confirm to Delete Coupon 

--- page 41 ---
34 
The next page is “หน้าปริ้นท์คูปอง.” This will show all pictures of coupons that have been 
generated. 
Figure 4.29: Print Coupon Page 
 
To print the coupons, click “ปริ้นคูปอง” to print and print popup will be shown. After 
printing coupon, we have to click “ปริ้นท์ส าเร็จ” To confirm the print action so that the record will 
not be reprinted. 
Figure 4.30: Layout on Paper When Printing Coupons 

--- page 42 ---
35 
4.2.3.1.5 Admin LINE Management 
The next page is “การจัดการแอดมิน.” We can manage the admin who can manage the LINE 
Bot 
 
Figure 4.31: Admin LINE Management – List of All Admins in LINE Group  
If we click “เพิ่ม admin,” we have to fill in username and User ID. User ID is ID of the 
LINE user. We can find it by talking to LINE bot. and then LINE bot will provide User ID for 
you. 
Figure 4.32: Admin LINE Management – Adding New Admin 

--- page 43 ---
36 
We can manage admin by choosing more than one customer or changing the status of the 
admin, so we do not have to add admin for another LINE group. 
 
Figure 4.33: Admin LINE Management – Choose the Customers that Admin will supervised 
 
4.2.3.1.6 User Management 
The last page is “การจัดการผู้ใช้.” This page will show users who can access the website and 
show the time that has login 
Figure 4.34: Users Management – List of All Admins for Website 

--- page 44 ---
37 
We can change password and status of the user. There are 2 statuses that are available in 
the system, admin and normal, normal user cannot access some page while admin can access all 
page on the website. 
 
Figure 4.35: Users Management – Adding New Users to Website 
 
Figure 4.36: Users Management – Updating New User to Website 
 
 

--- page 45 ---
38 
4.2.3.2 LINE Bot Command on LINE Application 
The next section is LINE group. This is command “สอบถามรหัสไลน์กลุ่ม” to ask bot about 
Group ID of the LINE group. The ID will be used to fill in register page in “การจัดการลูกค้า.” 
 
Figure 4.37: Bot Command – Inquire for GroupId 
If we provide coupon, bot will detect QR code and then translate to value of coupon and 
customer. Then the coupon will not be used again. 
 
Figure 4.38: Bot Detect Information from QR-code on Used Coupon’s Picture 

--- page 46 ---
39 
If coupon is already used, the coupon cannot reuse again. 
 
Figure 4.39: Bot Detect Used Coupon from Picture 
This is command “สอบถามยอด” will provide today coupon usage and remaining coupons. 
 
Figure 4.40: Bot Command – Inquire for Daily Total Value of Used Coupons  

--- page 47 ---
40 
This is command “สอบถามไอดี” To ask bot about User ID that will be used in adding admin 
in “การจัดการแอดมิน” Page. 
 
 
Figure 4.41: Bot Command – Inquire for Current User’s LINE User ID 

--- page 48 ---
41 
4.2.4 Database Design 
 In this section, we will describe the database design with an entity relational diagram to 
demonstrate how the data in each table has been related and how data have been stored in each 
table. 
 
Figure 4.42: Database – Entity Relational Diagram 
 

--- page 49 ---
42 
Chapter 5: Results 
 Our result of the project relates to user interface and wording in website and LINE. The 
site operator who uses this application had commented that some words using the website are 
hard to understand. We will explain in detail. 
First, the site operator wants to change about sidebar wording that she does not 
understand such as “การจัดการลูกค้า”, “การจัดการคูปอง”, “การจัดการแอดมิน,” “การจัดการผู้ใช้.” She wants to cut “การ
จัดการ” and leave only “ลูกค้า”, “คูปอง”, etc. so that she can understand that which tab is related to which 
area.  
 
Figure 5.1: Sidebar 
Change the date format of “วันที่ถูกใช้” to date/month/year and color designate status of 
used/unused/missing coupons including mark icons. Used will be red with X icon, unused will be 
green with v mark, and missing will be grey with ? mark. 
 
Figure 5.2: used coupons record 

--- page 50 ---
43 
 
Figure 5.3: unused coupons record 
 
Figure 5.4: missing coupons record 
 
Swap between “ราคาคูปอง” and “วันที่ซื้อ” 
 
Figure 5.5: Purchase Coupon – “ราคาคูปอง”, “วันที่ซื้อ” 

--- page 51 ---
44 
Change “ราคา” to “ราคาต่อใบ”  
 
Figure 5.6: Purchase Coupon – “ราคา” 
 
 
Use modal instead of alert 
 
Figure 5.7: Purchase Coupon – alert 

--- page 52 ---
45 
Change “ปริ้นท์ส าเร็จ” to “ปริ้นท์” 
 
Figure 5.8: Print Page – “ปริ้นท์ส าเร็จ” 
 
 
 
Change “เลือกวันที่ต้องการ” to “วัน/เดือน/ปีที่ผลิต”  
Figure 5.9: missing coupon page – “เลือกวันที่ต้องการ” 

--- page 53 ---
46 
Next, she wants to change about sign up because she does not want others to be able to 
sign up except administrator which is site operator. So, the sign-up page will be deleted. 
 
 
Figure 5.10: Sign Up page Deleted

--- page 54 ---
47 
Chapter 6: Conclusion 
 
This section is the conclusion of this project that will describe what benefits can be 
achieved by deploying this project on the real environment and situation. This section will also 
talk about the future works that can be done on this project for more functionality in many 
situations. 
 
6.1 Conclusion of the Project 
 This section will describe the benefits that this project will achieve through deploying 
this project on the oil stations with coupon system. 
Reduce human work: Although human error problems still can occur due to wrong 
typing or inputs, it will be reduced significantly. Since the process of generating and managing 
coupons is more autonomic and digital from than the current deployed coupons system and 
chatbot in place. The time spent on generating and managing coupons will be reduced as well as 
less laboring in these processes. The process of checking used coupons can be automatically 
done and check the picture sent by the chatbot in LINE group chat instead of manually checking 
by human before. 
Convenience: If they have a laptop or personal computer with internet, they can use this 
web application online. No need to install the program. Just remember ID and password to login. 
This application can be used anywhere as long as the computer is connected to a printer. Printers 
can be USB-connected printers or Wi-Fi connected printers. The bot can also be used as long as 
your smartphone or tablet has LINE application. The bot must be the members of the LINE 
group or add bot as a friend in order to communicate with it. With these, the bot can be used 
anywhere and anytime. This project also allows employees to send pictures from the oil stations 
directly and the business owner can also check the evidence of employees sending pictures from 
anywhere without being at the oil station. 
Data storage and visualization: This web application records every time that coupons 
have been generated which can be used to search or make a change to it in some cases such as 
wrong inputs or coupons missing. It also stores various data that will be used alongside 
generating and managing coupons such as customers data, the admin data for administration. The 
business owner and employees at the One Petroleum can also benefit from better data 
visualization in the form of a graph and table which are better at displaying data than stacks of 
paper coupons. 
--- page 55 ---
48 
6.2 Future work 
 Add new label about delete and missing record: due to delete page does not show the 
amount of delete value and coupons. the page should show the amount of coupon and total 
amount the page should show the amount quantity of coupon and total amount. 
Improving authentication system: due to our website saving ID and password in 
database. We would like to improve the authentication system in order to make it more secure. 
So, we will use JSON Web Token instead of saving ID and password in database. 
--- page 56 ---
49 
References 
[1] Fabien Pinckaers(2005). Open Source Inventory Management | Odoo.  
Chaussée de Namur, Belgium. From https://www.odoo.com/app/inventory  
 
[2] ChatCompose (2019), USA From https://www.chatcompose.com/build.html 
[3] ChatCompose (2019), USA From https://www.chatcompose.com/line.html 
[4] Cybrosys Technologies (December 21,2020), USA From 
https://www.cybrosys.com/blog/coupon-programs-odoo-14 
[5] Micheal Barasa (February 14, 2021). How to Implement Material-UI in React, USA From 
https://www.section.io/engineering-education/how-to-implement-material-ui-in-
react/#:~:text=Introduction%20to%20Material%2DUI,to%20write%20everything%20from%20s
cratch. 
[6] PubNub. What is ngrok?, From https://www.pubnub.com/learn/glossary/what-is-ngrok/ 
[7] Jordan Walke(2013). React (JavaScript library) - Wikipedia. From  
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/React_(JavaScript_library) 
 
[8] Guillermo Rauch(2016)  Next.js - Wikipedia. From https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Next.js  
 
[9] Francisco Suarez(2019). Next.JS What is it? From  
 https://medium.com/front-end-weekly/next-js-what-is-it-9cb2f4af8f27  
 
[10] Wade Anderson. "Evolution of Visual Studio Code Insiders". code.visualstudio.com. 
Microsoft. Retrieved 24 September 2020. 
From https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visual_Studio_Code  
 
[11] Krishna(2021). What is MongoDB? Introduction, Architecture, Features & Example 
(guru99.com). From https://www.guru99.com/what-is-mongodb.html  
 
[12] (2015)NoSQLBooster - The Smartest GUI Tool and IDE for MongoDB. From  
https://nosqlbooster.com/ 
 
[13] Guillermo Rauch(2015) Introduction to Vercel - Vercel Documentation. California, USA. 
From https://vercel.com/docs  
[14] LINE Developers LINE Developers Console Overview, Japan. From 
https://developers.line.biz/en/docs/line-developers-console/overview/ 
[15] LINE Developers Messaging API, Japan. From 
https://developers.line.biz/en/docs/messaging-api/ 
 
[16] Creative Tim, Next JS dashboard. From https://www.creative-tim.com/ 
 
--- page 57 ---
50 
[17] MongoDB, Embedding SDK for Charts Demo – MongoDB Charts. From 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VXA7cLxKZpQ&t=208s 
 
[18] Material-UI SAS, Material UI. From https://mui.com/ 
 
[19] Moment.js, Using Moment. From https://momentjs.com/docs/ 
 
 
 