--- page 1 ---
   
 
ASSUMPTION UNIVERSITY 
Vincent Mary School of Science and Technology 
IT4292 SENIOR PROJECT II FINAL REPORT 
Data Analytics with D-Network Worldwide Company 
 
 
Project Advisor:   Asst.Prof. Dr. Darun Kesrarat 
Project Committee:  Asst.Prof. Dr. Benjawan Srisura 
A. Suparwat Charoenvikrom 
 
 
SUBMITTED BY:  
Tanus Witpattanakul  6015131 
Pon-ake Phayak  6017503 
Kittisak Sadee  6037506 
 
Semester 1/2021 

--- page 2 ---
   
Table of Contents 
Content          Page 
Introduction          1 
Analysis from the existing system                         2 
Objective          8 
Program requirement         11 
Requirement           
User requirement        12 
 System requirement        13 
Scope and Limitation 
 Scope           14 
Limitation         17 
Cost estimation and Benefits 
 Cost estimation        18 
 Benefits         19 
Methodology          20 
Logical Design of the New System 
Data Flow Diagram        23 
Entity Relationship Diagram       39 
Data Dictionary        40 
How program work?         45 
Reference          83 
--- page 3 ---
   
List of Figures 
Content          Page 
Figure 1: Entity relationship of existing system      2 
Figure 2: Event DNW platform user subpage: user account     4 
Figure 3: Event DNW platform user subpage: user login     4 
Figure 4: Event DNW platform Manage subpage: Event Details    5 
Figure 5: Event DNW platform Report subpage: Event report   6 
Figure 6: Event DNW platform Master Data sub web: country    6 
Figure 7: Project Development assigned tasks      21 
Figure 8: Project Development timeframe       21 
Figure 9: Context diagram of Analytic Dashboard     23 
Figure 10: Dataflow Diagram level 1 of Analytic Dashboard    24 
Figure 11: Dataflow Diagram level 2: user login of Analytic Dashboard   25 
Figure 12: Dataflow Diagram level 2: Sale report of Analytic Dashboard   26 
Figure 13: Dataflow Diagram level 2: Buyer report of Analytic Dashboard  27 
Figure 14: Dataflow Diagram level 3: Buyer report selected top    28 
buyer of Analytic Dashboard  
Figure 15: Dataflow Diagram level 3: Buyer report selected top    29 
frequency buyer of Analytic Dashboard  
Figure 16: Dataflow Diagram level 3: Buyer report selected top lowest   30 
buyer of Analytic Dashboard   
Figure 17: Dataflow Diagram level 3: Buyer report selected total purchase   31 
on specific year of Analytic Dashboard  
Figure 18: Dataflow Diagram level 2: Product report of Analytic Dashboard  32 
Figure 19: Dataflow Diagram level 2: Membership report of Analytic  33 
Dashboard  
Figure 20: Dataflow Diagram level 2: Summary overall of Analytic Dashboard  34 
Figure 21: Dataflow Diagram level 2: Admin login of Analytic Dashboard  35 
Figure 22: Dataflow Diagram level 2: User account of Analytic Dashboard  36 
   
--- page 4 ---
   
List of Figures (cont.) 
Content          Page 
Figure 23: Dataflow Diagram level 2: Other details of Analytic Dashboard  37 
Figure 24: Dataflow Diagram level 2: Manage Data Table     38 
Figure 25: Entity Relationship Diagram of Analytic Dashboard    39 
Figure 26: Suggestion report         45 
Figure 27: Sale report, Year quarter sale, lowest and highest sale   46 
, and Sale revenue  
Figure 28: Sale report: Year target, Highest sale and lowest sale on   48 
year target and chart  
Figure 29: Calculated sale percentage based on target boundaries    49  
data table form  
Figure 30: Add Sale Target         50 
Figure 31: Top 5 customer purchased based on price and times    51 
Figure 32: Buyer report top purchase more detail      52 
Figure 33: Buyer report top frequency buyer more detail     53 
Figure 34: Buyer report Lowest purchase       53 
Figure 35: Buyer report Lowest purchase buyer      54 
Figure 36: Total customer purchase based on purchasing price of year   55 
Figure 37: Total customer based on purchasing price of year more detail   55 
Figure 38: Total customer purchase based on number of times in specific year  56 
Figure 39: Total customer purchase based on number of times in    57 
specific year more detail  
Figure 40: Total lowest customer purchase based on purchasing price   57 
Figure 41: Total lowest customer purchase based on purchasing    58 
price more detail  
Figure 42: Product report Year selection and Product Searching    59 
Figure 43: Data Table of Product selling       60 
Figure 44: Graph of Highest product sale per month and     60 
Lowest product sale per month  
--- page 5 ---
   
List of Figures (cont.) 
Content          Page 
Figure 45: Highest product sale per month more detail     61 
Figure 46: Lowest product sale per month more detail     62 
Figure 47: Highest product sale of year       62 
Figure 48: Highest product sale of year more detail      63 
Figure 49: lowest product sale of year       63 
Figure 50: Lowest product sale in year more detail      64 
Figure 51: Membership report Top user, saler, membership based on   65 
purchasing times  
Figure 52: Top user purchase based on number of times more detail   66 
Figure 53: Top Saler purchase based on number of times more detail  66 
Figure 54: Top Member purchase based on number of times more detail   67 
Figure 55: Membership purchase based on times by year and month  68 
Figure 56: Top of three memberships based on purchasing price    69 
Figure 57: Top user purchasing based on purchasing price more detail   70 
Figure 58: Top saler purchase based on purchasing price more detail   70 
Figure 59: Top member purchase based on purchasing price more detail   71 
Figure 60: Membership purchased based on purchasing price by    72  
year and month  
Figure 61: Summary overall, summary sale and Membership ratio    73 
Figure 62: Overall revenue         74 
Figure 63: Overall product sale & Overall buyer      75 
Figure 64: User account for admin site       76 
Figure 65: User account: Editing user account      77 
Figure 66: User login for admin site        77 
Figure 67: user history for admin site       78 
Figure 68: user update for admin site       78 
 
--- page 6 ---
   
List of Figures (cont.) 
Content          Page 
Figure 69: Data table record for admin site      79 
Figure 70: Import data page        80 
Figure 71: Import new data         81 
  
--- page 7 ---
   
List of Tables 
Content          Page 
Table 1: Cost of Implementation        18 
Table 2: All Development Tools used       18 
Table 3: Data Dictionary of Order Data       40 
Table 4: Data Dictionary of Target        41 
Table 5: Data Dictionary of User        42 
Table 6: Data Dictionary of User History       43 
Table 7: Data Dictionary of User Login       43 
Table 8: Data Dictionary of User Update       44 
  
--- page 8 ---
   
______________________________________________________________  
Vincent Mary School of Science and Technology 
Department of Information Technology 
Department of Computer Science 
Senior Project Final Approval 
_____________________________________________________________  
Project Title: Data Analytics with D-Network Worldwide Company 
By:   Tanus Witpattanakul 6015131 
Ponake Phayak  6017503 
Kittisak Sadee  6037506 
Project Advisor: Asst.Prof. Dr. Darun Kesrarat 
Academic Year: 1/2021 
_____________________________________________________________  
The Senior Project committees of the Department of Information Technology, Department of 
Computer Science, Vincent Mary School of Science and Technology, Assumption University 
had approved this Senior Project Proposal. The Senior Project Proposal submitted in partial 
fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Bachelor of Science in Information Technology 
and Bachelor of Science in Computer Science. 
 
Approval Committees: 
 
______________________ 
(Asst.Prof. Dr.Darun Kesrarat) 
Project Advisor 
 
______________________   ______________________ 
(Asst. Prof. Dr.Benjawan Srisura)  (A Suparwat Charoenvikrom) 
Committee Member    Committee Member 
--- page 9 ---
   
Acknowledgement 
We would like to express my deep gratitude to Asst.Prof. Dr. Darun Kesrarat, my supervisors, 
for their patient guidance, enthusiastic encouragement and useful critiques of this research work 
and for her advice and assistance in keeping my progress on schedule. Our grateful thanks are 
also extended our committee members Asst.Prof. Dr. Benjawan Srisura and  A. Suparwat 
Charoenvikrom, without whose support we would not have been able to complete the project. 
Secondly, we would like to express our special gratitude toward our friends and family  for their 
support and constant encouragement. 
Finally, our thank and appreciations go to everyone who have been a part of developing the 
project with us. 
 
Mr. Tanus Witpattanakul 
Mr. Pon-ake Phayak 
Mr. Kittisak Sadee 
  
--- page 10 ---
 
 
 
  1 
Introduction 
In this Senior Project  2, we have decided to create a project  for D-Network company  which 
supervised by Asst.Prof. Dr. Darun Kesrarat . D-Network company is the company that currently 
sell products in for m of direct sell by presenting  food supplement to customers that have a 
various benefit to attract customers. We have to study about how company operate their business 
and to do  a term project 2 . First time we come to the firm is that we need to learn the 
progression, how company work and co -worker that we need to contact whole of workload 
period. To learn the systematic of company, we first learn the tool that IT leader team has 
assigned us to do, for example, code igniter for web based.  
In the main part of Senior Project 2 after assisted as a support, we are assigned to analysis part 
which will develop web -based to help the firm  under supervision of IT manager (Head of the 
software developer, Jamrus Pangthong (จ ำรัส ปำนทอง), and Finance manager, Eang ( refuse to show 
real name so we call her by nickname ). In this task, we create a new web -based analysis contain 
with customers’ information and to conclude the information of each user type for dec ision 
making to the company , to signify the problem of each product and to observe user favorite 
product. 
The website will be considering allowing user access to the following functions: 
• Enable to check five reports including: 
o Sale report 
o Buyer report 
o Product report 
o Membership report 
o Summary overall report 
• Enable user to inspect, check, study report to improve efficiency of the firm 
What we expect for our system is to provide benefit as much as possible to company and staff in 
order to increase c ompany’s performance and make simple progress to staff when they use the 
system. 
  
--- page 11 ---
 
 
 
  2 
Company Background 
D-Network Worldwide is the company that focusing on selling supplementary product for 
example, nutrient product also open course for people who interested to be partner with company 
with various benefit 
Analysis the existing system 
We have studied the existing problem from the backend of Event DNW Platform which is the 
backend website for operating system in websit e platform of D -Network Worldwide Company. 
We studied from the system that our IT manager re quirement for our new website system. But 
first we will show Entity Relationship Diagram of the existing system. 
 
Figure 1: Entity relationship of existing system 

--- page 12 ---
 
 
 
  3 
As solid evidence, before we obtained the order_data which is the  database that we currently 
used in our analytic  dashboard projects. During the time  of observing and interviewing with IT 
manager ( Head of Software Developer), we have got the Entity Relationship Diagram which 
describe the structure of company current system. 
Remark: Based on our scope, the original Entity Relationship Diagram  that company provided  
to our team and query result of order_data, which being used in the projects; its only referred to 
order transaction section of the company. So, it is neither structure nor described of the whole 
company system. NOTED: This is part we can access to the system and to use in the project and 
we can only access in this part of company system 
The definition of the Entity Relationship Diagram 
• tmCOR – Entity which contains the data of the customer 
• tmREGTYP – Entity which contains customer registration code 
• ttINH – Entity which contains customer order 
• ttIND - Entity which contains customer order in details 
• tmPKH - Entity which contains product details and its standard cost 
Estimate data of Original ERD from company can classify to:  
• Product data = around 400 records 
• Register type data = 3 records 
• Order header = around 40000 records 
• Order details = around 70000 records 
• Customer data = around 14000 records 
Also, the department has provided query code which being used in data conversion process as a 
reference of our order_data. 
select C.fcName [buyer_name], R.fcCode [membership_level], H.fcCode [code_sold], H.ftDate 
[date_sold], 
  K.fcCode [product_code], K.fcName [product_name], cast(D.fnQty as int) [product_quantity], 
K.fnStdCost [product_price_per_unit], cast(D.fnQty as int) * K.fnStdCost [fnTotAmt] 
from tmCOR C 
  inner join tmREGTYP R ON R.fcID = C.fcCGPID  
  inner join ttINH H ON H.fcCORID = C.fcID 
  inner join ttIND D ON D.fcINHID = H.fcID 
  inner join tmPKH K ON K.fcID = D.fcPKHID 
where H.ftDate between convert(datetime, '2019-01-01') and convert(datetime, '2021-07-31') 
  and cast(D.fnQty as int) * K.fnStdCost > 0 
order by [date_sold], [code_sold], [product_code] 
 
--- page 13 ---
 
 
 
  4 
 
Firstly, we focused on user account part and user which has 2-part User account and User login  
 
Figure 2: Event DNW platform user subpage: user account 
 
Figure 3: Event DNW platform user subpage: user login 
 
We can see that in user account will contain information of Record ID, Full name, Username, 
email, Admin access, Disable access, Role, Action. 

--- page 14 ---
 
 
 
  5 
For User login in this part will show recent login of user which will show information of Last 
updated, Access name, IP address, User agent (Browser version used), platform, and action.  
As we studied from this part, we can see that some part for user is  sort in good position with 
overall to know information of user but for the drawback we can say that this report sometime 
hard to read and problem editing user is hard to find because it represents as icon at action which 
most of time, we overlook that 
 
Figure 4: Event DNW platform Manage subpage: Event Details 
Manage part, we will focus on event detail  because in this part is not in our scope of project, but 
we can study to see its advantage to adapt to our system 
In this part we can see that event detail can be added at the top right with add button  and it will 
show at the center of webpage, we can control event from this page by clicking at enable button 
to activate or deactivate event. 
We can say that manage event part is easy to use come with a list that will currently active or not 
and can sort at Ena bled to sort current active event, we hardly find the drawback in this due to 
our project does not cover manage event part. 

--- page 15 ---
 
 
 
  6 
 
Figure 5: Event DNW platform Report subpage: Event report 
In this part of analysis, we will drill down to report which has subpage is evert report which will 
search recent events that occurred  
 
Figure 6: Event DNW platform Master Data sub web: country 
Master data: contain of data record in system which will include side page  as followed: Country, 
Agent type, show time, Agent pay type, Event category, Booking Status, Font size, and Scan list 
 

--- page 16 ---
 
 
 
  7 
From our perspective , unfortunately that the information has been delete so we cannot study 
about how data represent to this table, but we can assume that data table is slightly same with 
other webpages we can say that these data can easily view in many ways, but it still lacks graph 
to show the detail of data which is we come up to do this part. 
Program interview result 
After we finish the program as  the company has requested , we have invited our supervisor who 
currently supervise our program development by 1.) IT manager (Head of the software 
developer, Jamrus Pangthong (จ ำรัส ปำนทอง), and 2.) Finance manager,  Aurairat Sae-aow(อุลัยรัตน์ แซ่
เอา). We have interview with both which already record and upload on YouTube. We also consult 
with IT manger (Head of the software developer) about the objective of this program specify in 
each graph that who can use in this function in each page. We have recorded the conversation 
and upload on YouTube. 
Link: https://youtu.be/w04fJ8AHTm8 (Program Interview with managers) 
Link: https://youtu.be/Wafl9aBrui4 (Program interview about objective in each graph) 
We will summary from the interview from the video as followed: 
• Even though our system has  limitations that make the system cannot reach some of 
function, but they commend that our system is easy to understand and easy to use. 
• As managers comment that the system can use as prototype to use in future as a big data, 
deep analysis, or add more functions  and component for better user interface for better 
performance and easy to use, power pivot, etc.  
• As a result, it can provide a better decision making to the executive officer. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--- page 17 ---
 
 
 
  8 
Objectives of the project 
The main objective of this project is to provide detail to company and to classify information that 
needed to use as soon as possible. Our function will contain information in term of summary 
report which will assist users to inspect information easier than common program. Moreover, the 
system can be improved in term of providing specific informatio n and make it simple to use in 
any action. What we aim in for the objective in this project and system is  to provide benefit to 
company as much as possible in part of reduce time progression of financial part or research and 
development part.  There are two part of this system which will have separate objective t o both 
of use which is user and admin 
Also, as the result from finalizing our project we can say that out program can use as the 
prototype for company in the future and we aim for this group of staff in the company. 
• Board of director 
• Head of each business department e.g., sale, finance, and etc. 
• Manager 
User side 
1) Program provides detailed report for the company  in the web -based platform, user can 
access to all report for gathering data to do research & development purpose.  Moreover, 
user can use report for prediction and calculation for next possible method to increase 
sale value . Furthermore , user be able to use data to analysis purpose to improve the 
product or least sale product, improve its quality. 
2) There are totally 5 analytics board available for all user to observe, which including: 
• Sale Report 
Core material used: Bar chart, and data table 
Extra content: Additional page for set up sale target 
Aims:  
i. Display the overall sale that company made within year , and also in each 
month, which displayed in bar chart. 
ii. Display year sale result as total amount and percentage  by divided int o 2 
sections: overall, and quarter. 
iii. [Extra page] Allow admin to setup target boundaries to see whatever the 
sale reaches the target or not . In another terms, to see if the sale goes 
either below or above the expectations. *** 
iv. ***Once target is settled, there are a section which user can observe the 
sale statistics chart and summary in order to see how the sale in year and 
month went prior to the expectation s. Also, user can switch the chart into 
data table to see exact number of how the sale went. 
v. To conclude, as user can see the overall sale that company has made in 
form of chart and percentage stats. Als o, admin can access through extra 
page to set the sale target boundaries for each year. 
--- page 18 ---
 
 
 
  9 
• Buyer Report 
Core material used: Bar chart, and data table 
Aims: 
i. To display the member who did highest purchase, and frequent brought in 
each month. The bar chart in these sections is prioritized to display top 5 
member who’s responsible in those activities . Users are able to switch 
month to see another result. 
ii. To display the member who did lowest purchase in each month. 
Differently, the bar chart in these sections is prioritized to display top 10 
member who’s responsible in those activities. Similar to the previous 
sections, user can switch month to see another result. 
iii. Display the total summarized of member activity in each section. The bar 
chart summarized the buyer who did highest purchase, highest frequent 
brough the product, and lowest purchase. Also, there are switchable option 
which allowed user to see another result. 
iv. There are More Details available in each section, in case user want to see 
the section in detail. Once the button is selected there will be data table 
show up, which describe all details in that section. 
v. To conclude, user can see summarized of member who did highest 
purchase, frequent brought product, and lowest sale  within year and 
month. The data that displayed in this section are being show in form of 
bar chart, and data table. 
• Product Report 
Core material used: Area chart with searchable options, bar chart, and data table 
Aims: 
i. Display the product that made highest and lowest  sale with in year and 
each month, which displayed in bar chart.  The arrangement was made in 
top 10 display. 
ii. Data table to display the ranking of product that made highest sale. 
iii. Area chart visualization, which display product sale in easy understanding 
image. User can see the highest peak and gap that product didn’t make any 
sold. 
iv. Switchable options are available, in case user want to observe different 
result. 
v. Also, there are more details which display in depth details in form of data 
table. 
vi. To conclude, user can see product that made either highest and lowest sale 
within responsible year and month  in form of data table , bar chart, and 
area chart. 
• Membership Report 
Core material used: Bar chart, and line chart 
--- page 19 ---
 
 
 
  10 
Aims: 
i. Display population growth statistic among each several kinds of member 
and amount of purchase , which happened in responsible year. The details 
are distributed in bar and line chart. 
ii. Display total population that currently registered as a membership in the 
company. The explanation is done in bar chart. 
iii. To conclude, user can see the summary of population growth of member 
and product purchase  in selected year . Also, the amount of population 
within the company . The  data that shown in this report are  bar and line 
chart. 
• Overall Report 
Core material used:  Line chart (and with searchable options), and data table with 
searchable options  
Aims: 
i. Display total sale growth that company made, which summarized based on 
all previous report. The sale growth is displayed in line chart. 
ii. Display total sale price  and tota l purchase that company made  in exact 
sum up number. 
iii. Visualization as a line chart which display each product with highest sale 
that product made. Selectable options are available for user, in case they 
want to see another result. 
iv. Data table to displays top buyer statistic, which describe ranking of buyer 
who have a highest product brought. Also, there selectable options which 
allowed user to expand the details of the data table. 
v. Display total member population in the company in average percentage. 
vi. To conclude, the page basically summarized the data in each report in easy 
understanding page. User can see summary of product sale growth , 
product with sold population , buyer statistic, and member average. The 
data are represented as bar chart, data table, and percentage. 
Admin side 
Program provides authority to control and maintain system in the web-based platform, admin can 
give role position for their purpose of any assigned work. Secondly, admin can check user 
account or who currently on which rol e or operate in the web -based platform  including that 
admin can update user data in user update. Also, admin will be able to check user history that 
when user login and logout from the system which can track user activity whole time. Lastly, 
admin can insp ect data table which is the overall data of every membership name in the 
company. 
 
 
--- page 20 ---
 
 
 
  11 
1.) Program provides admin manage users’ account for the system 
The system collects user registered data  of user account , admin have full authority to 
observe activities, changelog, and etc. Also, manage user account in term of  role 
changing, activation, make change of details, and delete unwanted account.  
 
2.) Program provides admin to manage data for the system 
To make change to current data in the dashboard in case if there are any future update, 
admin can have options to upload the updated version of the data set onto the site 
database. So, the site can fetch very new data if there are future data update.  
Requirement 
We have asked from the IT manager to create system that be able to support company dashboard 
website that system will contain the function of keep customer data and convert to data table 
which will provide to 5 reports.  
Each report will provide specific information based required information that department in 
company request. The information that will provide in system is:  
• Sale report: product sale of each year in company that will convert sale data to table 
analysis to help user gathering data faster. 
• Buyer report: gathering data from all buyers to show most buy product from buyer and 
summarize in table. 
• Product report: product data that will provide product information in table and graph to 
analyze each product that make highest sale or lowest sale for easier classify. 
• Membership report: Show all membership in the report as table. 
• Summary report: Summarized information that will convert all report to one table.  
  
--- page 21 ---
 
 
 
  12 
User Requirement 
In order to implement our system, we need to know who will be involved  to our either project or 
system. Starting from drilling dow n to type of users which can classify to 2 users which is user 
and admin.  To determine that requirement, several methods will be used including observing, 
interviewing, and giving questionnaire to  them. With those determined it would be easier for us 
to studies the current situation within the existing system. 
Stakeholders of Summary report system are included: 
Users 
Focusing on main stakeholder who will mostly use the system. It’s clear that user can access to 
all common report that will be provided in the system to check and analysis. User requirement s 
are: 
• User can register account to the system, 
• User can login into the system 
• User can view the report 
Admin 
In part of admin, admin will take responsibility of inspecting the system, checking overall users, 
manage user or select role for user; Admin requirements are: 
• Admin can create account for the customer 
• Admin can manage user account 
• Admin can check login history in same device 
• Admin can check overall of user history  
• Admin can check user update status that perform by other admins 
• Admin can access to customer data table 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--- page 22 ---
 
 
 
  13 
System Requirement 
In part of acknowledge user to understand how system provided function.  System will separate 
to two part which is system for user and system for admin.  
So, the system requirements for normal user are: 
• System provides registering account for users 
• System provides login system for users  
• System provides reports for users 
System requirement for admin: 
• System provides checking user account for admins 
• System provides manage user account for admins 
• System provides delete user account for admins 
• System provides user login for admins 
• System provides searching user login for admins 
• System provides viewing user history for admins 
• System provides inspecting user history for admins 
• System provides checking user update for admins 
• System provides checking data table for admins 
  
--- page 23 ---
 
 
 
  14 
Scopes of the project 
User 
Observing each type of report 
For the scope of observing each type of report, there are 5 types of report that our program can 
provide the information for the user of the program.  
The 5 types consist of: 
• sales report 
• buyer report 
• product report 
• membership report 
• and overall summery 
Sale Report 
The purpose of sales report is to summarize the sales accumulated by the company within each 
year and within year it shows sale made within each month.  The function of each report is  
varying. 
The objectives  and function of sales report are to  summarize the sales accumulated by the 
company within each year and within year it shows sale made within each month , In the report 
there will also include the targets that were set by the company which are the target of sales they 
want to achieve within that year. 
Buyer Report  
The function of buyer report  is to summarize the  purchase made by Individual which are 
categorize into highest purchase, highest frequency, and total of each type.  The report can be 
check for each month. 
Product Report 
The function of product report is to check the amount of each product that w ere purchase which 
are separated into the highest purchased and lowest purchased within each month . Furthermore, 
summarize which product made the most sales and the lowest sales in a year. With information it 
can be used to conclude which product is the top selling product and which product is the lowest 
selling product. 
Membership Report 
The function of membership report is to check the purchase made by each group  and how much 
sales are made by each group. Furthermore, the to check the overall user’s listing. 
 
--- page 24 ---
 
 
 
  15 
Overall Summary 
The function of the overall summary is to summarize the data of every report into one report. 
• User account management: The function of user account management has 2 things which 
are to manage users and oversee the information. 
Admin 
In overall, admins are similar to user which they can grant access like user to observe the report 
as mentioned in user scope. However, it is completely different from user because admins’ 
function is dealing with management and observing user status . For example, user account 
management, and observing overall information within the dashboard. 
We have listed function that admins have authority as follows: 
Login 
• As all website’s user will need to access to gain permission as admins or customers 
Manage user account 
Admin will be able to inspect/edit/manage to all manageable part of the system which all admins 
will have authority to access all of this management system. 
• See user account details 
o Admin can see user account listing in order to check the status and permission of 
user that using the system. 
• Modify and update user account 
o Apart from seeing who is registered within the dashboard. Admin can make 
change those registered account as well. E.g., modify activation status, changing 
details, delete account, and etc. 
Observing user stats and data table 
There are changelog and stats provided for admin to check their recent activity which happened 
within the dashboard. Also, include data table which admin can observe overall data of the 
system. 
• Observe current logged in status 
o To see which distinct account is being active within the system at that time 
o Simply, who is being logged in right now 
• Observe user login history 
o To see who has recently logged into the system 
• Observe user account update log 
o To see user account that has update recently, which all updated records are kept as 
a log. 
--- page 25 ---
 
 
 
  16 
o Or user update history 
• Observe data table 
o Raw data that used in each report are visible in form of data table  
--- page 26 ---
 
 
 
  17 
Limitation of the project 
Even though we meet our requirement that our IT manager has assigned for us, our system still 
has limitation that this program cannot do, or the system cannot reach due to its scale of project 
or some part that cannot be reach, so we break to 3 main points of this as followed 
1) Does not link with the main backend system 
• This system will sperate from the main backend system, which make s ome part of 
this system cannot follow the current situation of the company and with some of the 
late update may cost miscalculation from system. 
 
2) System does not have real time update 
• The severe point of this project is unable to real time update data, which make some 
user may confuse new and old data . So, with this current limitation we must s ay that 
this system must in schedule to catch up current data of company. 
 
3) System does not have 3D statistic 
• In the scope we have study from existing system, we come up with graphs , analysis 
dashboard, data table, and so on we don’t have 3D statistic graph for comparison.  
 
4) Data can import only .csv 
• The system be able to import data but can only import in term of .csv file . 
 
5) Data that import will not replace data 
• The system when import data will  not replace duplicate data but will recognize as 
new data. Therefore, when import new data we need to check that there is no 
duplicate data in the system. 
 
6) Fixed data format from the system required 
• The data format that ports from .csv must be in the same format as the system has 
designed. 
 
7) The system will not read new column that generate from . csv file and will not generate 
new column in the database. 
• The data that import from .csv , system will fix the import column that will be port to 
the system. It means that even though user import file .csv with new column into the 
system, sy stem will not read new column in .csv file.  It also not generates new 
column in database 
  
--- page 27 ---
 
 
 
  18 
Cost Estimations and Benefits 
Cost Estimations 
As we know that our project is simulation -based project; so, we have decided to removed 
hardware and software cost out of the estimations because we are not using them anymore in our 
case. However, we have left with implementation cost, and development tools, which we 
considered to be the most necessary things that we really need to run with the project. 
Cost of Implementation 
Table 1: Cost of Implementation 
Implementation Cost 
Information Cost 
Domain Hosting Company Subdomain - 
Total - 
 
Table 2: All Development Tools used 
Development Tools 
Information Remark Version 
Lucid Chart Free Trial - 
Visual Studio Code 
 
Non-paid version of 
software 
1.54.1 
Adobe Dreamweaver 
 
Non-paid version of 
software 
Adobe CC 2020 
XAMPP 
• Apache 
• MySQL 
• FileZilla 
 
Non-paid version of 
software 
v3.2.3 
 
--- page 28 ---
 
 
 
  19 
Benefits 
• Tangible benefits 
o Increase decision making in the company 
▪ As we develop analysis system, the impact of this system will be decision 
making for the company. Because, as they can see information easier than 
before make it clear to help them decide the best decision to make profit for 
company 
o A good decision-making leads to make profit 
▪ When our system can fully help company to do benefit, the system can h elp 
manager to decide crucial possible part of business to make a profit.   
• Intangible benefits 
o A prototype for better version of analysis system in company 
▪ As you can that techs can go forward to a better version our system is 
designed to adapt to a better version for more detail, information that be able 
to support company further. 
o Easy to use for the user 
▪ From what we studied from analysis from exist ing, we see that old system has 
many problems with analysis part or we can tell that there is mostly no 
analysis part but only data table  for webpage. So, we come up with new 
function for user that will convert data for easier to user, understand. 
  
--- page 29 ---
 
 
 
  20 
Methodology 
Agile approach  
What we agreed to do first is focused on the coding path due to lack of knowledge to create 
reliable diagram which make it go according to the flow of work. After we finish more 80% of 
program progression, we continue to create Data flow diagram, Entity relationship diagram from 
the mostly finished system. 
Analyzing System Needs 
We have investigated and determined requirement from the existing Analysis system. Moreover, 
we examine the requirements and expectations that we had gathered. After that, we deeply 
analyze expectation of the system and understanding the scope and objectiv e to develop a Data 
Flow Diagram and Entity Relationship Diagram for our new system. 
  
--- page 30 ---
 
 
 
  21 
Project Timeframe 
 
Figure 7: Project Development assigned tasks 
The Gantt chart show the process of Data Analytic with D -Network Company with tasks which 
assigned to each team members. Also, illustrated the progress, workdays, task depends, and start-
to-end date of each task.  
 
Figure 8: Project Development timeframe 
The Gantt chart illustrated the timeline on each activity on our project and the duration of each. 
Starting from the project timeframe estimation, our project is 6 months project starting from 1 
May 2021  and finish on 19 October 2021 . The process  within the timeframe is including 

--- page 31 ---
 
 
 
  22 
Analysis of the new system , Development and Testing, Redesign project structure, and Project 
Finalizing. 
  
--- page 32 ---
 
 
 
  23 
Data Flow Diagram 
 
Figure 9: Context diagram of Analytic Dashboard 
The figure has showed the context diagram which explained the workflow of the entire system 
along with the project. As we can see, the context diagram is consisted of two external entity 
which are User and Admin, and one main process as internal entity whi ch are Analytic 
Dashboard. 
According to the figure, it is showing the data flow of external entities throughout the system. It 
is considered to be data flow between User and Admin, who has involved with the Analytic 
Dashboard. In the system perspective, User is considered to be external stakeholder while Admin 
is holding internal stakeholder position within the system. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- page 33 ---
 
 
 
  24 
 
Figure 10: Dataflow Diagram level 1 of Analytic Dashboard 
The Data Flow Diagram Level 1 is represen ting the workflow of Analytic Dashboard , which 
consists of 8 processes: 1.0 Login, 2.0 View Sale Report , 3.0 View Buyer Report , 4.0 View 
Product Report, 5.0 View Member Report , 6.0 View Overall Summary of Report, 7.0 Manage 
User, and 8.0 View Other Details. 
 
 
 
 

--- page 34 ---
 
 
 
  25 
Data Flow Diagram Level 2 User 
 
Figure 11: Dataflow Diagram level 2: user login of Analytic Dashboard 
The Data Flow Diagram Level 2 of process 1.0 User login is representing the internal process 
within the process 1.0 which consisted of 3 subprocess, which are 1.1 Verify user account, 1.2 
Add user account, and 1.3 Update user online status. 
Also, consisted of 2 data stores, which are User data and User history data. 

--- page 35 ---
 
 
 
  26 
 
Figure 12: Dataflow Diagram level 2: Sale report of Analytic Dashboard 
The Data Flow Diagram Level 2 of process 2.0 View sale report  is representing the internal 
process within the process 2.0 which consisted of 5 subprocess, which are 2.1 Display yearly 
report (sale), 2.2 Display target result , 2.3 Search sale target, 2.4 Edit target record,  and 2.5 
Delete target record. 
Also, consisted of 2 data stores, which are Order data and Target data. 
 
 

--- page 36 ---
 
 
 
  27 
 

--- page 37 ---
 
 
 
  28 
Figure 13: Dataflow Diagram level 2: Buyer report of Analytic Dashboard 
The Data Flow Diagram Level 2 of process 3.0 View Buyer Report  is representing the internal 
process within the process 3.0 which consisted of 5 subprocess, which are 3.1 Display yearly 
report (buyer), 3.2 Display purchase section, 3.3 Display frequency section, 3.4 Display lowest 
section, and 3.5 Display total section. 
Also, consisted of 1 data store, which are Order data. 
Data Flow Diagram Level 3 Buyer Report 
 
Figure 14: Dataflow Diagram level 3: Buyer report selected top buyer of Analytic Dashboard 
The Data Flow Diagram Level 3 of process 3.2 Display purchase section  is representing the 
internal process within the process 3.2 which consisted of 2 subprocess, which are 3.2.1 Display 
selected top 5 buyer on specific month, and 3.2.2 Display selected top 5 buyer on specific month 
in details. 

--- page 38 ---
 
 
 
  29 
Also, consisted of 1 data store, which are Order data. 
 
 
 
Figure 15: Dataflow Diagram level 3: Buyer report selected top frequency buyer of Analytic 
Dashboard 
The Data Flow Diagram Level 3 of process 3.3 Display frequency section  is representing the 
internal process within the process 3.3 which consisted of 2 subprocess, which are 3.3.1 Display 
selected top 5 frequency buyer on specific month , and 3.3.2 Display selected top 5 frequency  
buyer on specific month in details. 
Also, consisted of 1 data store, which are Order data. 
 

--- page 39 ---
 
 
 
  30 
 
Figure 16: Dataflow Diagram level 3: Buyer report selected top lowest buyer of Analytic 
Dashboard 
The Data Flow Diagram Level 3 of process 3.4 Display lowest section is representing the 
internal process within the process 3.3 which consisted of 2 subprocess, which are 3.4.1 Display 
selected top 10 lowest buyer on specific month , and 3.4.2 Display selected top 10 lowest buyer 
on specific month in details. 
Also, consisted of 1 data store, which are Order data. 
 
 

--- page 40 ---
 
 
 
  31 
 
Figure 17: Dataflow Diagram level 3: Buyer report selected total purchase on specific year of 
Analytic Dashboard 
The Data Flow Diagram Level 3 of process 3.5 Display total section is representing the internal 
process within the process 3.5 which consisted of 2 subprocess, which are 3.5.1 Display selected 
type of total purchase on specific year , and 3.5.2 Display selected type of total purchase on 
specific year in details. 
Also, consisted of 1 data store, which are Order data. 
 
 

--- page 41 ---
 
 
 
  32 
 
Figure 18: Dataflow Diagram level 2: Product report of Analytic Dashboard 
The Data Flow Diagram Level 2 of process 4.0 View product report is representing the internal 
process within the process 4.0 which consisted of 7 subprocess, which are 4.1 display year report 
(product), 4.2 Show product sale chart , 4.3 Show top selling table , 4.4 Display monthly product 
sale, 4.5 Display yearly product sale, 4.6 Display more details (month product sale), and 4.7 
Display more details (year product sale). 
Also, consisted of 1 data store, which are Order data. 
 

--- page 42 ---
 
 
 
  33 
 
Figure 19: Dataflow Diagram level 2: Membership report of Analytic Dashboard 
The Data Flow Diagram Level 2 of process 5.0 Membership report is representing the internal 
process within the process 5.1 which consisted of 5 sub -processes, which are 5.1  Display yearly 
report (member), 5.2 Display each kind of membership purchase based on number of times , 5.3 
Display each kind of membership purchase based on number of times in more details , 5.4  
Display each kind of membership purchase based on purchasing price (THB) , and 5.5  Display 
each kind of membership purchase based on purchasing price (THB) in more details. 
Also, consisted of 1 data store, which are Order data. 
 

--- page 43 ---
 
 
 
  34 
 
Figure 20: Dataflow Diagram level 2: Summary overall of Analytic Dashboard 
The Data Flow Diagram Level 2 of process 6.0 Summary overall  is representing the internal 
process within the process 6.0 which consisted of 3 subprocess, which are 6.1 Display summary, 
6.2 Search overall revenue by year, 6.3 Search overall product sale, and 6.4 Search overall buyer. 
Also, consisted of 1 data store, which are Order data. 
Data Flow Diagram Level 2 Admin 

--- page 44 ---
 
 
 
  35 
 
Figure 21: Dataflow Diagram level 2: Admin login of Analytic Dashboard 
The Data Flow Diagram Level 2 of process 1.0 Admin login is representing the internal process 
within the process 1.0 which consisted of 3 subprocess, which are 1.1 Verify admin account, 1.2 
Add admin account, and 1.3 Update admin online status. 
Also, consisted of 2 data stores, which are User data and User history data. 
 

--- page 45 ---
 
 
 
  36 
 
Figure 22: Dataflow Diagram level 2: User account of Analytic Dashboard 
The Data Flow Diagram Level 2 of process 7.0 display user account is representing the internal 
process within the process 6.0 which consisted of 4 subprocess, which are 7.1 show user account, 
7.2 update user account, 7.3 delete user account and 7.4 add user update log. 
Also, consisted of 2 data stores, which are User data and User update data. 
 

--- page 46 ---
 
 
 
  37 
 
Figure 23: Dataflow Diagram level 2: Other details of Analytic Dashboard 
The Data Flow Diagram Level 2 of process 8.0 Other detail for admin is representing the internal 
process within the process 6.0 which consisted of 4 subprocess, which are 8.1 Show current login 
status, 8.2 Show login history, and 8.3 Show user update log. 
Also, consisted of 4 data stores, which are User login data, User history data, User update data, 
and Order data. 

--- page 47 ---
 
 
 
  38 
 
Figure 24: Dataflow Diagram level 2: Manage Data Table 
The Data Flow Diagram Level 2 of process 9.0 Manage Data Table for admin is representing the 
internal process within the process 6.0 which consisted of 4 subprocess, which are 9.1 Import 
Data Table, 9.2 Show Import History, 9.3 Show Data Table, and 9.4 Delete Import History. 
Also, consisted of 1 data store, which are Order data. 
  

--- page 48 ---
 
 
 
  39 
Entity Relationship Diagram 
 
Figure 25: Entity Relationship Diagram of Analytic Dashboard 
The figure describes graphical form of system data schema. The Entity Relationship Diagram 
shows a relationship among user, user history, user login, and user update . However, there are 1 
set of ERD that doesn’t have any relation with any user entity, which are order data and target. 
In each entity, it represents attributes that needed to be store in entities. Each attribute is the 
information that system needs to store in order to operate the process in Analytic Dashboard. 
  

--- page 49 ---
 
 
 
  40 
Data Dictionary 
Order data 
Table 3: Data Dictionary of Order Data 
Attribute Description Type Field Size Sample 
ID Order ID int 11 1 
Buyer_Name Name of buyer varchar 100 Mr. Somsak 
John 
Membership_Level Classify each 
type of member  
varchar 100 SALER 
Code_Sold Generated code 
after product is 
sold 
varchar 100 6201/000004 
Date_Sold Date that 
product is sold 
varchar 100 2020-01-02 
Product_Name Product Name varchar 100 ALERTIDE 
Product_Quantity Product 
Quantity 
int 11 1 
Product_Price_Per_Unit Product price 
per unit 
int 11 1000 
Total_Price_Sold Total price sold int 11 1000 
The table shows data dictionary of Order data , which including the attribute name of  ID, 
buyer_name, membership_level, code_sold, date_sold, product_name, product_quantity, 
product_price_per_unit, and total_price_sold. The table also contains type of data , description, 
field size, and example of each. 
 
 
 
 
 
--- page 50 ---
 
 
 
  41 
Target 
Table 4: Data Dictionary of Target 
Attribute Description Type Field Size Sample 
ID Target ID int 11 1 
Year Specifying year 
for observe 
target 
int 100 2019 
Target Specifying sale 
target for 
observe 
int 100 12000 
Last_Update When target 
update last 
updated 
timestamp  2019-02-01 
DateTime Target settled varchar 100 2021-09-02 
16:53:21 
The table shows data dictionary of Target, which including the attribute name of ID, year, target, 
last_update, and datetime. The table also contains type of data , description, field size, and 
example of each. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--- page 51 ---
 
 
 
  42 
User 
Table 5: Data Dictionary of User 
Attribute Description Type Field Size Sample 
ID User ID int 11 1 
Username Name of user varchar 100 admin 
Email User Email varchar 100 admin@gmail.com 
Password User account 
password 
varchar 100 admin1234 
Role User account 
role 
varchar 100 Administrator 
Status User account 
status 
varchar 100 Activated 
Last_Update Date that user id 
has been 
updated 
timestamp  2021-09-02 
16:53:21 
DateTime Created date varchar 100 2021-09-02 
16:53:21 
The table shows data dictionary of User, which including the attribute name of  ID, username, 
email, password, role, status, last_update , and datetime. The table also contains type of data , 
description, field size, and example of each. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--- page 52 ---
 
 
 
  43 
User History 
Table 6: Data Dictionary of User History 
Attribute Description Type Field Size Sample 
ID Login History 
ID 
Int 11 1 
Username Username varchar 100 admin 
Email User Email varchar 100 admin@gmail.com 
Role User account 
role 
varchar 100 Administrator 
Status User account 
status 
varchar 100 Activated 
DateTime Login date timestamp  2021-09-02 
16:53:21 
The table shows data dictionary of User history , which including the attribute name of  ID, 
username, email, role, status, and datetime. The table also contains type of data, description, field 
size, and example of each. 
User Login 
Table 7: Data Dictionary of User Login 
Attribute Description Type Field Size Sample 
ID User Login ID int 11 1 
Username Username varchar 100 admin 
Email User Email varchar 100 admin@gmail.com 
Role User account 
role 
varchar 100 Administrator 
DateTime Login current 
timestamp 
timestamp  2021-09-02 
16:53:21 
--- page 53 ---
 
 
 
  44 
The table shows data dictionary of User login , which including the attribute name of  ID, 
username, email, role, and datetime. The table also contains type of data , description, field size, 
and example of each. 
User Update 
Table 8: Data Dictionary of User Update 
Attribute Description Type Field Size Sample 
ID User Update ID int 11 2 
Username Username varchar 100 user 
Email User Email varchar 100 user@gmail.com 
Role User account role varchar 100 none 
Status User account 
status 
varchar 100 none 
User_ID User ID that has 
been updated 
int 10 2 
DateTime Update 
timestamp 
timestamp  2021-09-02 
16:53:21 
The table shows data dictionary of User history , which including the attribute name of  ID, 
username, email, role, status, user_id, and datetime. The table also contains type of data , 
description, field size, and example of each. 
  
--- page 54 ---
 
 
 
  45 
How program works? 
User’s site 
Suggestion report  
 
Figure 26: Suggestion report 
Explanation: 
Suggestion report of system will provide all accessible report for users. All accessible report will 
include Sale information, Buyer information, Product information, Product information, Member 
information and Summary overall. For this page, we want to show accessible data for users as 
much as possible to acknowledge them that what type or information of report that users can use. 
How each function of this page work:  In page will sperate to five accessible report s, user can 
freely select from five reports which will they want. By clicking at more detail of each report 
  

--- page 55 ---
 
 
 
  46 
Sale report 
 
Figure 27: Sale report, Year quarter sale, lowest and highest sale, and Sale revenue 
Explanation: 
At the first report, which is Sale report will convert data into the graph and percentage of sale in 
each year which can separate to 13 parts as followed 
How each function work:  
1) Select year:  
2) First quarter sale of year: In this part will show that static percentage of sale value in the 
first quarter of year which will include  3 months: January, February, and March . 
Formula for calculating percentage of first quarter of year:  
First Quarter = ([sum of total amount sale in January, February, and March] / sum of total 
amount of sale in that year) * 100 
 
3) Second quarter sale of year: In this part will show that static percentage of sale value in 
the second quarter of year which will include 3 months: April, May, and June. 
Formula for calculating percentage of second quarter of year:  
Second Quarter = ([sum of total amount sale in April, May, and June] / sum of total 
amount of sale in that year) * 100 
 
 
 

--- page 56 ---
 
 
 
  47 
4) Third quarter sale of year: In this part will show that static percentage of sale value in the 
Third quarter of year which will include 3 months: July, August, and September. 
Formula for calculating percentage of Third quarter of year: 
Third Quarter = ([sum of total amount sale in July, August, and September] / sum of total 
amount of sale in that year) * 100 
 
5) Last quarter sale of year: In this part will show that static percentage of sale value in the 
Last quarter of year which will incl ude 3 months: October, November, and December. 
Formula for calculating percentage of last quarter of year:  
Last Quarter = ([sum of total amount sale in October, November, and December] / sum of 
total amount of sale in that year) * 100 
 
6) Lowest sale value of year: The detail will represent as lowest sale of year, the data will 
show month that has lowest sale , with total amount that made in those months and also 
show percentage of sale value of month in whole year. In this case, the static shows that 
April is the lowest monthly sale of the year 2020 
Formula for calculating percentage of lowest monthly sale of year: 
Lowest Sale = find minimum without zero (sum of total amount sale [January, February, 
March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, and December]) 
 
7) Highest sale value of year: The detail will represent as highest sale of year show in data 
of month, showing data of total amount of highest sale in this year, and show percentage 
of sale value in this year.  In this case, the static shows that December is the highest 
monthly sale of the year 2020. 
Formula for calculating percentage of highest monthly sale of year: 
Highest Sale = find minimum without zero (sum of total amount sale [January, February, 
March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, and December]) 
 
8) Sale revenue: This graph show s as the whole sale of one year , which convert data into 
graph of information . This graph  will show e ach month in specific year that how much 
they made income in each month. 
--- page 57 ---
 
 
 
  48 
 
Figure 28: Sale report: Year target, Highest sale and lowest sale on year target and chart 
In this second part of report will focus on targeting sale of each year that admin of system can set 
targeted income of this year to estimate profit of each month.  
9) Year target: The box of information show data of sale target that set to reach the goal of 
this year, as example in figure: # #, you can see that the target sale is 66 million per year. 
The graph clearly shows that it reaches over its goal by 87.47% of this year and also 
show that total amount of this year that is 123,727,568 Baht.   
Formula for calculating percentage of year target:  
Year Target = (sum of total amount sale in that year / [target sale * 12]) * 100 
 
10) Highest monthly sale target : This part will show information of highest monthly target 
that can mostly sale in specific year, refers to figure ##: you can see that using year target 
sale from 66 million baht divide by 12 is 5.5 million of each month the highest is 
13,223,754 baht which significantly reach its goal at this point of mo nth by increased in 
percentage for 140.43% of this month  that is December, month that made highest sale in 
2020. 
Formula for calculating percentage of highest monthly sale target: 
Highest sale based on target = (highest sale / target sale) * 100 
 
11) Lowest monthly sale target: this information represents as the lowest year target that 
made lowest sale in specific year by showing information of monthly target sale, 
percentage of profit, and total amount of specific month, refers to figure  ##: the year 
target is setting at 66 million baht per year which divide 12 is 5.5 million in each month. 

--- page 58 ---
 
 
 
  49 
We can see that lowest sale of this year is 84.12% or loss for 15.88%. the total amount of 
this month is 4,626,612 b aht. The graph shows that April is the lowest sale target of year 
2020. 
Formula for calculating percentage of lowest monthly sale target: 
Lowest sale based on target = (lowest sale / target sale) * 100  
 
12) Calculated sale percentage based on target boundaries  chart form: This graph shows data 
of monthly sale target which will break down to each month that how much sale in each 
month can make, we can set monthly target by use 66 million of year target divide by 12 
month we will get monthly sale target for this graph. Refers to Figure 28: The horizontal 
will show information of month and Vertical show information of percentage of target 
that can make in each month. 
 
Objective of the graph in the report 
Sale revenue: Executive officer can u se for focusing on total sale of each year which will use 
with other report to make an analysis such as product report with sale report compare between 
same year with month of sale and check product sale individual. 
Calculated sale percentage based on target boundaries: Executive officer can see graph as 
separate month to compare data with last year and compare each month to special holiday and set 
plan of each month for market engagement to engage customer with new approach, to increase 
marketing sale of each month. 
 
Figure 29: Calculated sale percentage based on target boundaries data table form 

--- page 59 ---
 
 
 
  50 
1) Calculated sale percentage based on target boundaries data table form : By clicking at 
Table button. The graph will change to Data table that will show information of monthly 
sale of each month by this table will show information of Month, Sale , Target per month 
and percentage. 
Formula for calculating monthly target in Data table: 
Calculated sale percentage based on target boundaries data table form:  
(Sale amount / target per month) *100 
Objective of this graph: Objective of this datable for use to see overall of each month that 
can reach its goal target or not. 
 
Figure 30: Add Sale Target 
Third part of Sale report that only Admin can access to this page which will use only for setting 
year target for specific y ear to check the Profit and loss of each year and to check lowest and 
highest sale of specific year.  
2) Adding new sale target: use by typing specific year that need to match to the database of 
existing month and then setting sale target for setting goal for  this year.  
Objective of this function: To set goal target of each year and sperate into twelve months 
and inspect at each month that it will reach what company expect or not 
 
3) Sale target information: Data table that show all information of year target whi ch will 
show data of Year, Target, Data create, or date of this data begin, updated, modify, or 
change sale target, and delete specific year of sale target. 
  

--- page 60 ---
 
 
 
  51 
Buyer report 
 
Figure 31: Top 5 customer purchased based on price and times 
At first part of  the second report which is Buyer report will focus on member who purchase 
product the most and the least purchased. This included Highest purchase, Highest frequency 
purchase, Top lowest purchase, and Total price of the report.  
How each function works: 
1) Select year 
 
2) Top 5 customer based on purchasing price : This g raph shows information of highest 
product purchased from buyer which data will contain with buyer information . The static 
will show total amount  of each month  that buyer made that will plot graph to show 
highest to lowest purchased product.  
 
3) Top 5 customer based on number of times : This graph shows information of highest 
frequent purchasing product of bu yer. The graph displays frequent purchased product of 
buyer by showing quantity purchased of buyer from highest to lowest frequent purchase.  
 

--- page 61 ---
 
 
 
  52 
 
Figure 32: Buyer report top purchase more detail 
4) Top 5 customer based on purchasing price more detail: Select more detail for opening the 
data table of highest product purchased of buyer, the data will show all buyer who buying 
at highest  to lowest of  total amount in this month . In this data table will consist of 
Number for sorting rank, Buyer name, Total amount, or money that bu yer spends to this 
company and Month to show current month. 
Objective of the graph in the report (How it can be use in Decision Making?) 
Top buyer section: This graph can be utilized once the highest buyer has been identified by the 
graph, the board member can use this information to do Customer Relationship Management 
(CRM) for example by upgrading their membership status to give them incentive to keep 
purchasing from the company , therefore, maintaining a good relationship with our custom er to 
ultimately turn them into the loyal customer. 
Lowest buyer section : Once the executive has observed the information in the graph, which 
identify the lowest purchasing customer. So, they can figure out a promotion which would help 
increase the sale among these customers . Therefore, bettering the marketing strategy toward 
these group of customers by doing so  they would help for better customer retention . 
Furthermore, they may also interview these group of customers about the decreasing purchase 
from them to be able to understand the customer insight. 
 
 

--- page 62 ---
 
 
 
  53 
 
Figure 33: Buyer report top frequency buyer more detail 
5) Top 5 customer based on number of times  more detail part: Select more detail to data 
table of top frequent purchased product of buyer which will show all buyer d etail. Buyer 
detail in this table will consist of Number for sorting rank of buyer, Buyer name, total 
amount for counting times that buyer come to but pr oduct with company and Month that 
show currently selected month. 
 
Figure 34: Buyer report Lowest purchase 

--- page 63 ---
 
 
 
  54 
6) Lowest 10 customers purchase  based on purchasing price : This graph show information 
of the buyer who purchase least value in this month . As the graph is represent to each 
month it be able to select to other mount by pressing button of mouth. In this graph 
consist of data, buyer name month, total sale. 
 
Figure 35: Buyer report Lowest purchase buyer 
7) Lowest 10 customers purchase  based on purchasing price  more detail: Showing datable 
of lowest customers purchase which include all customers from this month. This data 
table will target at customer who spend least money to company. 
 

--- page 64 ---
 
 
 
  55 
 
Figure 36: Total customer purchase based on purchasing price of year 
8) Total customer purchase based on purchasing price of year : This graph will show 
information of customer by display data of customer who spend money with c ompany 
year. Prioritizing by sorting customer who spend money the most to lowest by this graph 
specifically focus on first ten customers that spend money at highest value. 
 
Figure 37: Total customer based on purchasing price of year more detail 

--- page 65 ---
 
 
 
  56 
9) Total customer purchase based on purchasing price of year  more detail: pressing more 
detail at top right button to shows information in form of data table which will show 
information of Purchase by value . data table will show all customer that recorded in bills 
of this year. 
 
Figure 38: Total customer purchase based on number of times in specific year 
10) Total customer purchase based on number of times in specific year : this graph show 
customers’ information of purchasing product count by times of purchase, by sorting data 
from highest buying times of customer to lowest buying times. 
 

--- page 66 ---
 
 
 
  57 
 
Figure 39: Total customer purchase based on number of times in specific year more detail 
11) Total customer purchase based on number of times in specific year more detail: Open this 
site by pressing button at the top right of the graph, it will reveal information of 
customers who buying product with company many times sorting from highest to lowest 
purchasing times. 
 
Figure 40: Total lowest customer purchase based on purchasing price 

--- page 67 ---
 
 
 
  58 
12) Total lowest customer purchase based on purchasing price : This graph show information 
of buyer who least purchased product from company by this graph sorting from lowest o r 
highest product purchased and this graph will focus on first ten buyers. 
 
Figure 41: Total lowest customer purchase based on purchasing price more detail 
13)  Total lowest purchase product more detail: Pressing more detail button at top right of 
graph will display all information of buyer who buy least product from company by 
sorting from lowest to highest purchasing product.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- page 68 ---
 
 
 
  59 
Product report 
 
Figure 42: Product report Year selection and Product Searching 
Product report is report for contain data of product which will have all information that involve 
with. It also come with product searching for looking to specific product that user or company 
want. It separates to 11 parts. 
1) Select year 
 
2) Product sale chart/Product  Searching: This graph shows information of specific product 
in form of line chart which will show information of selected month and selected product 
in one month.  Another function of this graph is that user can hover mouse to show 
information of specific date of product sale to see quantity sale of product in each day  
 

--- page 69 ---
 
 
 
  60 
 
Figure 43: Data Table of Product selling 
3) Top selling products: Data table that shows all information that products have been sale 
all over the year in the specific year, this data table will sort by product that made most 
sale product by total amount of product . This data table consist of Product, Product code, 
Quantity (units) and Total Amount (THB). 
 
Figure 44: Graph of Highest product sale per month and Lowest product sale per month 
 

--- page 70 ---
 
 
 
  61 
4) Highest product sale per month: In this graph shows information of product sale in each 
month by sort product from highest sale to lowest sale, this graph will focus at first 10 
product that can make most sale in one month. 
 
5) Lowest product sale per month: For this graph will show information of lowest product 
sale by sorting from lowest product sale  to highest product sale, this graph will focus on 
first 10 lowest sale product in each month. 
 
Figure 45: Highest product sale per month more detail 
6) Highest product sale per month more detail: Clicking at more detail at the top right of 
graph will show data of product sale in form of data table which will reveal all product 
data that made sale in specific month. Prioritizing from Highest product sale per month to 
lowest product sale 

--- page 71 ---
 
 
 
  62 
 
Figure 46: Lowest product sale per month more detail 
7) Lowest: product sale per month more detail: clicking more detail button at top right of the 
graph, it will show the data table that contain all product data in this year, by prioritize 
sorting from lowest sale product of specific month to highest. 
 
Figure 47: Highest product sale of year 
8) Highest product sale of year: This graph shows data of product that has a highest sale at 
specific year, which will represent in bar graph and show in graph as ten highest  product 
sales. 

--- page 72 ---
 
 
 
  63 
 
Figure 48: Highest product sale of year more detail 
9) Highest product sale of year more detail:  Showing this graph by clicking at the top right 
of the graph and it will reveal the data table that will display all data of product sale of 
this year sorting by highest sale to lowest sale of specific year. 
 
Figure 49: lowest product sale of year 
10) Lowest product sale of year: The graph shows information of product sale over the year 
by prioritizing at lowest product sale. Which will sort by Lowest product to Highest 
product sale. 

--- page 73 ---
 
 
 
  64 
 
Figure 50: Lowest product sale in year more detail 
11) Lowest product sale in year more detail: display this page by clicking at top right of the 
graph then it will show data table of the lowest product sale of specific year, by this data 
table will reveal all data with sorting lowest product sale to highest product sale. 
Objective of the graph in the report (How it can be use in Decision Making?) 
Top product sale section : By looking at the graph of the top selling product, the board  of 
director can use this information to conduct their extensive research on why the product interest 
customer and why it gets higher sale in comparison to other product . Furthermore, they can use 
this information for their marketing plan . For example, calculating the production of the product 
to meet the demand in each year. 
Moreover, they can use the information from this graph to compare performance of each product 
which will help them plan future steps to take. 
Low product sale section: By looking at this graph of the lowest selling product the board of 
director can use this information to do research on why the product is underperforming they can 
also come up with a marketing plan. For example, a promotion to help boost the sales of the 
product to meet the objective; they can also do the advertising to help increase customer 
awareness of the product to ultimately increase the sale of the product. However, if the sale of 
the product doesn’t increase even after all the marketing, they can m ake a decision of 
discontinuing the product by looking at the graph, if they product doesn’t meet the objective 
required. 
  

--- page 74 ---
 
 
 
  65 
Membership report 
 
Figure 51: Membership report Top user, saler, membership based on purchasing times 
Membership report is the report that will store data of each user type that involve with the 
company which can classify to three types of user that is User, Sale, Member:  
User: User is common people who buy product with company  but not involve any further.  
Saler: Saler is people who buy product from company and sell to users as retailer of the company 
who promote company’s product. 
Member: Member is User who register to company in term of offering, or special product price 
from company or buy 1 free 1 from company as example. 
1) Select year: 
 
2) Top User purchase based on number of times : This graph show user’s information of 
product purchased based on times which will show that h ow many users buy product 
from company and how many times user buy product with company  by prioritized from 
highest purchasing times to lowest purchasing times. 
 
3) Top Saler purchase based on number of times:  This graph show information of Saler 
information who buy product from the company. This graph will show number of times 
that Sale buy produc t from company.  By prioritized from highest purchasing times to 
lowest purchasing times. 
 

--- page 75 ---
 
 
 
  66 
4) Top Member purchase based on number of times : This graph shows information of 
member who but product from the compan y by show information of product purchasing 
times by prioritized from highest purchasing times to lowest purchasing times. 
 
Figure 52: Top user purchase based on number of times more detail 
5) Top user purchase based on number of times more detail: pressing button at top right of 
the graph will show information of user who buy product count by times, which reveal all 
users that buy product will company for first day (1st January) of specific year. 
 
Figure 53: Top Saler purchase based on number of times more detail 

--- page 76 ---
 
 
 
  67 
6) Top saler purchase based on number of times more detail: Open this data table by 
clicking at top right of saler chart will show all information of saler that buy product from 
company of the specific year. 
 
Figure 54: Top Member purchase based on number of times more detail 
7) Top member purchase based on number of times more detail: Show information of 
member who buy product from company count by times , by showing all information of 
member sorting from highest purchase times to lowest purchase times. 
 

--- page 77 ---
 
 
 
  68 
 
Figure 55: Membership purchase based on times by year and month 
8) Membership purchase based on times by year:  Bar graph shows information of 
membership in term of comparison by comparing of product purchase count by times of 3 
member that involve in the company. 
 
9) Membership purchase based on times by month: Line graph shows information of 
membership by line graph of three members by users, salers, and members that involve in 
company. 
Objective of the graph in report (How it can be use in Decision Making?) 
Membership purchase based on times by year : Objective of this graph is to make comparison 
for company to see overall membership that involve to company in this year in term of 
purchasing product counted by times. 
Membership purchase based on times by month: Executive office will see as each specific 
type of user and use marketing data to sale to do campaign or promotion to the saler to increase 
sale for saler to raise in next month, or next year. Make comparison between three user types to 
engage next marketing strategy in the future. 

--- page 78 ---
 
 
 
  69 
 
Figure 56: Top of three memberships based on purchasing price 
10) Top user purchase based on purchasing price ( THB): The bar graph show information  
user purchasing product count by price  (THB), sorting from highest purchasing price to 
lowest purchasing price. 
 
11) Top Saler purchase based on purchasing price  (THB): The graph show information of 
saler who purchasing product by counting from price (THB), sorting from highest 
purchasing price to lowest purchasing price. 
 
12) Top member purchase based on purchasing price (THB): The graph show information of 
member who purchasing product by counting from price (THB), sorting from highest 
purchasing price to lowest purchasing price. 

--- page 79 ---
 
 
 
  70 
 
Figure 57: Top user purchasing based on purchasing price more detail 
13) Top user purchasing based on purchasing price more detail: by clicking at top right of 
graph will show information in form of data table , in this data table will show 
information of all user data t hat purchase product will company.  by sorting at highest 
purchase price to lowest purchasing price. 
 
Figure 58: Top saler purchase based on purchasing price more detail 

--- page 80 ---
 
 
 
  71 
14) Top saler purchase based on purchasing price more detail more detail: This graph will 
show by pressing at the top right button of the saler graph. It will show information of 
sale who buy product from company  by sorting at highest purchase price to lowest 
purchasing price. 
 
Figure 59: Top member purchase based on purchasing price more details 
15) Top member purchase based on purchasing price more detail: This graph shows after 
pressing button at top right of member chart, it will show information of all members in 
form of data table which will be all member that has purchased product with company in 
the specific year. 

--- page 81 ---
 
 
 
  72 
 
Figure 60: Membership purchased based on purchasing price by year and month 
16) Membership purchased based on purchasing price by year: show in information in form 
of bar graph which provided data of three members who involve with buying product 
company counted by price that made to company by specific year. 
 
17) Membership purchased based on purchasing price by  month: The line graph show 
information of member that purchasing product on each month counted by purchasing 
price. 
Objective of the graph in report 
Membership purchased based on purchasing price by year: As executive officer sees this 
graph will be able to use in data analysis in part of marketing strategy in next year and may come 
up with new strategy for engaging user. To attract new customers and old customers to buy 
product from company 
Membership purchased based on purchasing price by month: To observe in each month that 
how much they earn income the most and the least in each year that executive officers may call 
for meeting for decision making for new approach to the customers. 
  

--- page 82 ---
 
 
 
  73 
Summary Overall 
 
Figure 61: Summary overall, summary sale and Membership ratio 
1) Total purchase by purchasing price: Income of all years that company received since the 
beginning of company. 
 
2) Total purchased by times: Purchase history counted by buy times that record at the 
beginning of company to present. 
 
3) Total purchase by unit : Data that show product sold count as unit, showing that how 
many products has been sold in all year. 
 
4) Total purchase by number of buyers: Data shows information o f number of buyers who 
purchase product from company count at first customer of company to current buyer 
company to set for marketing in the future. 
 
5) Membership ratio: show overall type of user in this company by using pie chart. 

--- page 83 ---
 
 
 
  74 
 
Figure 62: Overall revenue 
6) This graph show information of total revenue of specific year in summary that all overt 
the year, they have made how much profit to the company. When you hover the mouse at 
the graph at some day and month it will show specific detail of revenue in that day. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- page 84 ---
 
 
 
  75 
 
Figure 63: Overall product sale & Overall buyer 
7) Overall product sale: this information will show when user select product and search then 
it will show total purchase of product by value which will show the to tal sale of all year 
since beginning of company until now. It also shows total purchase by unit which will 
show the quantity of product sale that will shows all sale quantity of product at the 
beginning until now. 
 
8) Overall Buyer: This data table will show information of buyer/customer who are involved 
with the company by show data of buyer name, Quantity that buyer purchased, and total 
amount that buyer made to company. 
Objective of the graph in the report (How it can be use in Decision Making?) 
By looking at the graph, the board of director  can observe the sales revenue of each day  and to 
see the total amount they make each year.  As for t he supporting details, t hese can help them to 
understand further about the critical details, they may need to use in marketing planning . For 
example, if they have any question about why  a product is performing well during certain period 
of time ; they can use the supporting details  to help answer the question while planning for a 
marketing plan. 
Also, for the membership ratio is to help determine the active user during each year. 
 
 
 

--- page 85 ---
 
 
 
  76 
Admin’s site 
In admin part, admin will have fully control of user management system which can access to all 
user activity and be able to give role, update, grant status, and delete user. Admin also be able to 
check user login and user history, including be able to see Data table of member. 
User manual 
 
Figure 64: User account for admin site 
User Account At the first page for admin site, the system will provide user account page for 
admin to manage user to give activate account, give role, or delete account 

--- page 86 ---
 
 
 
  77 
 
Figure 65: User account: Editing user account 
User account: edit user account by give role to the user to classify user type to access to data  and 
can change user’s status to activate or deactivate due to any reason will be given. 
 
Figure 66: User login for admin site 

--- page 87 ---
 
 
 
  78 
User login 
User login page is for checking login status that currently login in the system. 
 
Figure 67: user history for admin site 
User history 
User history is for checking user login which will show detail of username, email, role, current 
status and date of login.  
 
Figure 68: user update for admin site 

--- page 88 ---
 
 
 
  79 
User update 
User update page is for admin to check activity of other admin that wha t they give access or 
grant any activity to users account which classify to ID, username, Email, Roles, Status, and 
Date time. 
 
Figure 69: Data table record for admin site 
Data table 
All gathered information convert into data table that will record all possible data from whole 
company keep in here 
 
 
 
 

--- page 89 ---
 
 
 
  80 
 
Figure 70: Import data page 
Admin can import new data from data table, which allow admin to import file only as .csv  and 
cannot import any other type of file except .csv 
How to import data 
• Receive clean data by query from company main database. 
• Re check that it is .csv file or not 
• Cut header of the table 
• Import file 
• Check data from main database 

--- page 90 ---
 
 
 
  81 
 
Figure 71: Import new data 
In this page, the company can view data that has been import to the program, it can be selected to 
which data has been import to system, also be able to delete if the data is wrong or unused. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- page 91 ---
 
 
 
  82 
Conclusion 
In conclusion, our system is to give best  to user’s side and admin’s side. Company will simply 
manage the system adapt the system and improve it for a better version which will greatly help in 
term of decision making the most. 
Improvement 
We have great improvement that improved from the last Senior project is that communication of 
our team is far better than the last time which make our work more efficiency and more effective, 
also make our work faster than before, including we have a great help from A. Darun. 
What went well 
With cooperation from the company by our IT manager, who provided crucial intel of data for 
data analytic, which make our progression go on good direction. Moreover, with guidance of our 
Advisor A. Darun who are the most critical rol e to our system  make our system nearly to finish 
as much as possible 
Difficulty 
We can say that the hardest part in this project is technical problems which include at the back 
end that take tim e to operate, and we have problem with request information with our IT 
manager due to the time work is different which his time mostly spent other side of company, so 
we have little chance to meet him. Finally, we still have problem with drawing diagram with 
mostly we are still struggle at the same problem, even though A. Darun give us a hand to this 
part.  
--- page 92 ---
 
 
 
  83 
References 
[1] https://request.d-nww.com/ 
[2] https://request.d-nww.com/backend 
[3] https://dnetwork.co.th/ 
[4] https://coderthemes.com/hyper/saas/dashboard-analytics.html 
[5] https://www.apachefriends.org/download.html 
[6] https://www.lucidchart.com/pages/ 
[7] https://www.adobe.com/th_th/creativecloud.html 
[8] https://code.visualstudio.com/ 
[9] https://youtu.be/w04fJ8AHTm8 Program Interview 
[10] https://youtu.be/Wafl9aBrui4 Program interview objective in each graph 
 