--- page 1 ---
 
 
Senior Project Report 
AuIdea  
 
 
Pinky Shahi, 
Suchawan Chaiworn, 
Lipika Bania 
 
A. Kiratijuta Bhumichitr (Advisor) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CS 3200 Senior Project 1 (1/2021) 
--- page 2 ---
 
i 
 
Senior Project Approval 
Project title:  AuIdea 
Academic Year: 1/2021 
Authors:  Suchawan Chaiworn   6135102 
Pinky Shahi    6135205 
 Lipika Baniya     6138108 
Project Advisor: A. Kiratijuta Bhumichitr  
 
 
The Senior Project committee’s cooperation between the Department of Computer Science and 
Information Technology, Vincent Mary School of Science and Technology, Assumption 
University had approved this Senior Project. The Senior Project in partial fulfilment of the 
requirement for the degree of Bachelor of Scie nce in Computer Science and Information 
technology. 
 
Approval Committee: 
 
 
 
………………………….. 
(A. Kiratijuta Bhumichitr) 
Project Advisor 
 
 
  
………………………….. 
(Asst. Prof. Dr. Paitoon Porntrakoon) 
Committee Member 
 ………………………….. 
(A. Tapanan Yeophantong) 
Committee Member 
 
 
--- page 3 ---
ii 
 
Acknowledgement  
We would like to give a special thanks to those who contributed to our senior project. This 
project is extremely important for us not only to apply Computer Science knowledge in the real 
world but also learn and utilize the technologies. 
We would like to express our deepest appreciation to our project advisor                               
A. Kiratijuta Bhumichitr for giving us practical suggestions during working progress. Much 
useful advice was given.  
Moreover, we thank the committee members Asst. Prof. Dr. Paitoon Porntrakoon and 
A. Tapanan Yeophantong for constructive comments on AuIdea so we can utilize it for 
improving our application. Furthermore, we would like to thank our Assumption University 
lecturers who provided us with knowledge and helped us develop our skill, which helped us out 
to complete the project. 
Lastly, we would like to thank our families and friends who inspired, encouraged, and 
supported us along the way. They gave us hope that the project would be possible, and we could 
make it more interesting.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--- page 4 ---
iii 
 
Abstract 
For Vincent Mary School of Science and Technology students about to enroll in senior project 
1 and 2, it can sometimes be difficult to understand what these projects are about or how they 
work. Most of the students are clueless about what kind of project to make or which advisor to 
choose. That is the main problem that we’re going to solve in this senior project. As a solution, 
we will build a platform for end users to view senior projects easily and have detailed 
information about certain projects and advi sors. A recommendation algorithm to help suggest 
some projects that might be useful for them when deciding on a senior project topic. For our 
senior project, our system will be able to recommend projects, showcase past projects as well 
as provide useful information about advisors.  
 
 
 
 
 
  
--- page 5 ---
iv 
 
Table Of Contents 
Chapter 1: Introduction ……………………………………………………………………... 1 
1.1 Rational and motivation……………………………………………………………….. 1 
1.2 Overview of AuIdea …………………………………………………………………... 2 
1.3 Goals and Objectives ………………………………………………………………….. 2 
1.4 Scope and Limitations…………………………………………………………………. 2 
Chapter 2: Literature Review……………………………………………………………….. 3 
2.1 Recommender Systems………………………………………………………………... 3 
2.1.1 Content-Based Recommender System…………………………………………... 4 
2.1.2 Collaborative Filtering…………………………………………………………... 4 
2.1.3 Weighted Hybrid Recommender System………………………………………... 6 
2.2 Related Works ………………………………………………………………………...7 
2.2.1 Recommender Systems for University Elective Course Recommendation ……7 
2.2.2 A Recommender System for Academic Projects Repository …………………….7 
Chapter 3: Project Framework and Methodology ………………………………………….9 
3.1 Senior Project Recommender System ………………………………………………….9 
3.1.1 Data Collection ………………………………………………………………….10 
3.1.2 Data Examination ……………………………………………………………….13 
3.1.3 Data Processing …………………………………………………………………13 
   3.1.3.1 Student-Course Data ……………………………………………………13 
   3.1.3.2 Senior Project Data ……………………………………………………..15 
3.1.4 Recommendation Algorithms …………………………………………………..17 
--- page 6 ---
v 
 
   3.1.4.1 Merging Data ……………………………………………………………17 
   3.1.4.2 Calculating Similarity …………………………………………………..17 
3.2 Design Processes and Research ………………………………………………………19 
3.2.1 Brainstorming …………………………………………………………………...19 
3.2.2 User Persona …………………………………………………………………….20 
3.2.3 User Journey …………………………………………………………………….22 
3.2.4 Low Fidelity Prototype ………………………………………………………….24 
3.2.5 High Fidelity Prototype …………………………………………………………25 
3.2.6 User Testing …………………………………………………………………….26 
Chapter 4: Features of the application …………………………………………………….27 
4.1 System Architecture …………………………………………………………………..27 
4.2 Functionalities ………………………………………………………………………28 
4.2.1 User Login Screen ………………………………………………………………28 
4.2.2 Explore Senior Projects Displayed ……………………………………………28 
4.2.3 Filter Displayed Senior Project …………………………………………………29 
4.2.4 Display of saved projects ……………………………………………………….30 
4.2.5 Recommended Project Display …………………………………………………31 
4.2.6 Project and Team Detail Screen ………………………………………………..32 
4.2.7 About Senior Projects Screen …………………………………………………..33 
4.2.8 Senior Project Professors Screen ………………………………………………..34 
4.2.9 User Profile Screen ……………………………………………………………..36 
Chapter 5: Preliminary Test ………………………………………………………………..37 
--- page 7 ---
vi 
 
5.1 Recommendation Algorithm Evaluation ……………………………………………..38 
            5.1.1 Recommendation ………………………………………………………………..38 
            5.1.2 Evaluation ……………………………………………………………………….39 
5.2 AuIdea Application Usability Testing……….………………………………………..40 
Chapter 6: Conclusion ………………………………………………………………………44 
References ……………………………………………………………………………………44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
--- page 8 ---
vii 
 
Table Of Figures 
Figure 2.1: Recommender system ……………………………………………………………. 3 
Figure 2.2: Content-based recommender system …………………………………………….. 4 
Figure 2.3: User-based nearest neighbor recommender system ……………………………… 5 
Figure 2.4: Item-based nearest neighbor recommender system ……………………………… 6 
Figure 2.5: Item-based nearest neighbor recommender system ……………………………… 6 
Figure 3.1: Content Based Recommender System …………………………………………… 9 
Figure 3.2: Recommender System Workflow ………………………………………………  10 
Figure 3.3: Student Dataset Sample ………………………………………………………… 10 
Figure 3.4: Advisor Specialty Google Form 1 ……………………………………………… 11 
Figure 3.5: Advisor Specialty Google Form 2 ……………………………………………… 12 
Figure 3.6: AuIdea Database ………………………………………………………………... 12 
Figure 3.7: Senior Project Dataset Grades Visualization …………………………………… 13 
Figure 3.8: Student-Course Data Processing Workflow ……………………………………. 14 
Figure 3.9: Senior Project Data Processing Workflow ……………………………………... 16  
Figure 3.10: Count Matrix Sample …………………………………………………………. 17 
Figure 3.11: Cosine Similarity Formula ……………………………………………………. 18 
Figure 3.12: Angle vs Distance ……………………………………………………………... 18 
--- page 9 ---
viii 
 
Figure 3.13: Affinity Diagram ……………………………………………………………… 20   
Figure 3.14: User Persona 1 ………………………………………………………………… 21 
Figure 3.15: User Persona 2 ………………………………………………………………… 21 
Figure 3.16: User Journey 1 ………………………………………………………………… 23 
Figure 3.17: User Journey 2 ………………………………………………………………… 24 
Figure 3.18 Low Fidelity Prototype ………………………………………………………… 25 
Figure 3.19 High Fidelity Prototype ………………………………………………………... 26 
Figure 4.1: Project Workflow ………………………………………………………………. 27 
Figure 4.2: Login Screen ……………………………………………………………………. 28 
Figure 4.3: Display senior projects …………………………………………………………..29 
Figure 4.4: Filter projects screen ……………………………………………………………. 30  
Figure 4.5: Favorites screen ………………………………………………………………… 31 
Figure 4.6: Display recommended projects…………………………………………………. 32  
Figure 4.7: Project detail screen (1) and team detail screen (2) …………………………….. 33 
Figure 4.8: Senior project description screen…………………………………………………34 
Figure 4.9: Professor’s display screen ………………………………………………………. 35 
Figure 4.10: Professor’s detail screen ………………………………………………………. 36 
Figure 4.11: User profile screen …………………………………………………………….. 37 
Figure 5.1: Recommend Function ………………………………………………………….. 38 
--- page 10 ---
ix 
 
Figure 5.2: Keep Matching IDs ………………………………………………………………39 
Figure 5.3: Calculate Accuracy ………………………………………………………………40  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--- page 11 ---
1 
Chapter 1: Introduction 
This chapter explains an overview of the Vincent Mary School of Science and Technology 
senior projects and its related resources. It also includes the purpose of this project as well as 
goals and limitations.  
1.1 Rational and motivation 
Senior projects provide students with the opportunity to create tangible products to add to their 
portfolios. In creating the works, the students demonstrate their knowledge and skills. Students 
must have both managerial and technical skills to thrive in senior assignments.  These projects 
help students portray what they have learned throughout their degree whether it be information 
technology or computer science [4].  
 AuIdea is a mobile application that is available on native platforms such as Android. 
Our rationale behind AuIdea was to make it easier for students to find information about senior 
projects as well as have the option to view past senior projects. However, to make the 
application more useful, we decided to make the application a showcase along with a 
recommender system. This system will recommend senior projects to students based on the 
courses they have taken in the past semesters. This helps them get some idea about what kind 
of projects might be suitable for them. Our target audience are the Vincent Mary Scho ol of 
Science and Technology students mostly in 3rd and 4th year of their degree. The reason we 
chose an android application rather than a website or any other platform is because according 
to statistics, 85% students prefer using a mobile app rather than the web since they are always 
using their smartphones [5].  
 
--- page 12 ---
2 
1.2 Overview of AuIdea 
AuIdea is a simple application where students will be shown a list of top n projects generated 
using a recommendation algorithm. These projects are curated based on their courses studied 
throughout the semesters. 
1.3 Goals and Objectives 
The goal of this project is to develop an application with a recommendation algorithm for senior 
projects. Our goal is further divided into the following objectives: 
(1) Recommend senior projects based on a student's past academic records. 
(2) Showcase Vincent Mary School of Science and Technology senior projects. 
(3) Display professor’s information who advises senior projects.  
1.4 Scope and Limitations 
Having to collect the related data by ourse lves and guaranteeing the privacy of students, are 
scope and limitations as shown below: 
(1) Create a content-based recommender system to recommend senior projects. However, 
we must recommend to single students using team-oriented data. 
(2) Create a database to st ore predictions, senior project, student, advisor, and advisor 
specialty data. Many of the data are not available publicly. 
(3) Create web APIs to let the application interact with the database. 
(4) Create an android application with all senior projects and advisor details. 
(5) Only Assumption University students will be able to log-in into the system 
--- page 13 ---
3 
Chapter 2: Literature Review 
This chapter explains an overview of recommender systems. It also includes a review of an 
academic research related to this project. 
2.1 Recommender Systems 
Recommender systems are systems that are designed to recommend items of interest to the user. 
As seen in Figure 2.1, these systems will filter the existing user data and the item data and 
predict the items that the user will most likely sel ect then rank them based on how likely they 
are to be selected. These predicted and ranked items, called recommendations, will aid 
indecisive users in choosing the correct item of interest, hence easing the decision -making 
process for both the user and the service. 
 
Figure 2.1: Recommender system 
There are many types of recommender systems. These systems work on different principles to 
generate recommendations. We will be talking about three of the most used  techniques for 
recommender systems and how they work. 
 

--- page 14 ---
4 
2.1.1 Content-Based Recommender System 
A content-based recommender system suggests similar items based on the features of an i tem, 
that is, the principle of similar content. As seen in Figure 2.2, the data from both the user and 
the item will be fed into the recommendation algorithms to generate predictions, which will 
then be ranked and outputted as recommendations. 
  
Figure 2.2: Content-based recommender system 
For example, in a movie content -based recommender system, the user data may include the 
user’s age, region, favorite movie genre and other preferences, and the item data will be the 
details of each movie such as its genr e, language, filming location and date released. The 
recommendation algorithms will then take in the data, calculate the similarity between the user’s 
preferences and each movie, then generate the top ten recommended movies to the user.  
2.1.2 Collaborative Filtering 
In collaborative filtering, the similar users or similar items are matched and are then used to 
generate recommendations. It is the principle of similar taste. Since this recommendation 

--- page 15 ---
5 
technique uses either user or item data, it is separated i nto two approaches: user-based nearest 
neighbor recommendation and item-based nearest neighbor recommendation. As seen in Figure 
2.3, a user -based nearest neighbor recommender system will use the user’s data to find other 
users with similar taste. The syst em will then recommend items preferred by the similar users 
to the user. Using the movie recommender system example, we talked about earlier, rather than 
calculating the similarity between the user’s preferences and each movie, the system would 
instead calculate the similarity between the user and other users using their data. After finding 
similar users, the system will then recommend movies most preferred by the similar users to 
the user. 
 
 
Figure 2.3: User-based nearest neighbor recommender system 
Item-based nearest recommendation works on a similar yet different principle. As seen in Figure 
2.4, the system will find items like the item and use the available data from other users on the 
item to predict the user’s preference on the similar items. For example, in a movie recommender 

--- page 16 ---
6 
system, the system will find movies like the movie the user liked and use other users’ rating on 
the similar movies to recommend which movies best suit the user. 
 
Figure 2.4: Item-based nearest neighbor recommender system 
2.1.3 Weighted Hybrid Recommender System 
The weighted technique is a parallelized hybridization design for recommender systems. It 
combines the predictions of multiple recommender systems, performs weighting on the 
predictions and generates a new prediction. As seen in Figure 2.5, the data input is taken by two 
recommender systems, the predictions of those to those two recommender systems are then 
computed and combined based on a weighting ratio, lastly, the weighted prediction will then be 
used as the recommendation. 
 
Figure 2.5: Item-based nearest neighbor recommender system 

--- page 17 ---
7 
2.2 Related Works 
In this part, we will research existing systems and analyze how other people solve this problem 
or problem of a similar nature. 
2.2.1 Recommender System for University Elective Course Recommendation 
This research paper introduces a recommender system for university elective courses. It aims 
to recommend elective courses to students based on their course template, a pattern of courses 
that a student studies in each semester. This helps students in saving time in decision making 
and course exploration. Two collaborative filtering algorithms, Pearson Correlation Coefficient 
(PCC) and Alternating Least Square (ALS), were used in this research. The recommender 
system was divided into four parts: data gathering, data preprocessing, similarity discovery and 
prediction. In data gathering, the records from the university’s registration database were 
collected and moved to a dataset. In data preprocessing, the collected d ata was cleaned, and 
redundant data was removed. In similarity discovery, the processed data was fed into the two 
algorithms, where the similarity between students with similar curriculum was found. In 
prediction, the system will recommend the student elective courses based on the curriculum of 
similar students. Finally, the prediction will evaluate the predictions through a modified 
accuracy metric called Threshold-Based Accuracy. In a scenario where the system recommends 
six courses to 423 marketing stude nts, the Alternating Least Square algorithm gave the better 
result with 86% of accuracy [2]. 
2.2.2 A Recommender System for Academic Projects Repository 
This research paper introduces a recommender system academic projects repository. This 
system is concerned with providing final year projects of degree programs with a plethora of 
past project reports related to different fields of interest. A content-based recommender and map 
--- page 18 ---
8 
reduce techniques were applied to project reports to facilitate retrieval of a recommended topic. 
Final year students can retrieve project reports through search terms related to a particular field 
of interest. The first part is information retrieval (IR) and information filtering (IF). The second 
part is creating a relational data model of the academic project recommender system (APRS) of 
academic projects and details of a student’s search and recommendation. Next is the logic 
modelling of APRS. The map reduce variant technique was used to search and content-based 
recommendation techni que was used in the recommendation process. Part of the search 
techniques applied krsort for ranking. These techniques combined make the search process 
faster and recommendation more reliable [3].  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--- page 19 ---
9 
Chapter 3: Project Framework and Methodology 
In this chapter, we will go through the details for the frameworks and algorithms that we used 
to implement our application and recommendation.  
3.1 Senior Project Recommender System 
A content-based recommender system uses item features to recommend other items like what 
the user likes. It fits our project since we can match the keywords from the student’s completed 
courses to the keywords of the senior project. This means that we will predict which senior 
project a student will likely pick based on their skills. As seen in Figure 3.1, there are two inputs 
for this content -based recommender system: senior project dataset and student dataset. The 
senior project dataset will have the details of a senior project including features such as project 
title, project description, project advisor and project member list. The student dataset contains 
the student and their completed courses in which the courses the student has completed would 
define their skill.  
 
Figure 3.1: Content Based Recommender System 

--- page 20 ---
10 
As seen in Figure 3.2, the recommender system will be divided into five parts. Data collection, 
where we collect the student and senior project data that we will be using. Data examination, 
where we look through the data for any missing values and interesting patterns. Data processing, 
where we select the features of interest and process the data into a format that can be used by 
the algorithm. Recommendation algorithms, where the main body of the recommender system 
is and contains the method that will find the similarity between student skills and senior projects 
to predict the senior projects a student will like. Lastly, predictions, where the result from the 
algorithm will be sorted, ranked, and stored. 
 
Figure 3.2: Recommender System Workflow 
3.1.1 Data Collection 
In this recommender system, the data that we used are the senior project data from the existing 
senior project portal and student -course data excluding basic courses and with grades ranging 
from C - to A, as seen in Figure 3.3. The data were pro vided by Asst. Prof. Dr. Paitoon 
Porntrakoon and A. Kiratijuta Bhumichitr,  respectively. 
 
Figure 3.3: Student Dataset Sample 

--- page 21 ---
11 
Additionally, we have collected advisor data from the faculty members page of Vincent Mary 
School of Science and Technology’s official website. As seen in Figure 3.4 and Figure 3.5, we 
have also collected the advisor specialty data through a survey using G oogle Form. However, 
these two-advisor data will not be used for the recommender system. All these data are kept in 
the AuIdea database as seen in Figure 3.6. 
 
Figure 3.4: Advisor Specialty Google Form 1 

--- page 22 ---
12 
 
Figure 3.5: Advisor Specialty Google Form 2 
 
Figure 3.6: AuIdea Database 

--- page 23 ---
13 
3.1.2 Data Examination 
During this process, we will look through the datasets using Visual Studio Code to confirm data 
types, missing values and find patterns that can be later used. Visualization is a useful way to 
help identify p atterns easier. For example, in Figure 3.7, we visualized the count of senior 
project grades. 
 
Figure 3.7: Senior Project Dataset Grades Visualization 
3.1.3 Data Processing 
The format of the data we want is a metadata soup, also called a “bag of words”. I t is a single 
column containing every relevant term from the features we have selected. 
3.1.3.1 Student-Course Data 
There are a total of three features in this dataset: 
(1) StudentCode — Student ID 

--- page 24 ---
14 
(2) CourseCode — Course ID 
(3) NameEn — Course name 
Following Figure 3.8, we first format the data by converting every data from NameEn into 
lowercase string and remove every existing comma. Then, we group the courses by 
StudentCode and convert this grouping into a list. Next, we will convert the data type back to a 
pandas’ data frame and reset the indices. This will result in a list of every course completed by 
each student. Finally, we will create a new column for the metadata soup by copying the existing 
list of completed courses. This process will be com pleted by removing commas, brackets, and 
quotation marks so that the data in the soup column will be in a “bag of words” form rather than 
a list. 
 
Figure 3.8: Student-Course Data Processing Workflow 

--- page 25 ---
15 
3.1.3.2 Senior Project Data 
There are a total of thirteen features in this dataset: 
(1) Number — Project number 
(2) Semester — The semester the project was made 
(3) Title — Project title 
(4) Description — Project description 
(5) Senior type — Project type, either senior project 1 or senior project 2 
(6) Required skills — The skills required to complete the project 
(7) External exposure — Exposure to the outside of the project 
(8) Advisor — Project advisor 
(9) Team — Project team’s name 
(10) Team skill — Skills of the project team’s members filled in during the 
registration 
(11) Student list — Members of the team including their ID, full name, registered 
senior project course code and senior project course name 
(12) Committees — Members of the committee, including their full name 
(13) Grade — The final grade given to the project 
As seen in Figure 3.9, we will create a new column called “Team size” by doing string 
operations. We will check if the student list contains certain combinations of strings and assign 
the team size according to it. Thi s feature will not be used in the recommender system, but it 
may be used in future data filtering. Then, we will remove senior projects with missing grades 
and grades below C. This is because we do not want to recommend projects that have failed, 
withdrew, or scored too low. Next, we will convert all the senior type into string by replacing 1 
with “seniorproject1” and 2 with “seniorproject2”.  Now we want to keep only features that are 
--- page 26 ---
16 
more likely to affect the outcome. We will drop every feature we do not need and format the 
data of the ones we like into lowercase strings with commas removed.  Finally, we'll combine 
the data of these selected features into a metadata soup and create a new column for the soup.  
 
Figure 3.9: Senior Project Data Processing Workflow 

--- page 27 ---
17 
3.1.4 Recommendation Algorithms 
The goal for this step is to calculate the similarity between each student’s metadata soup and 
every senior project’s metadata soup that we processed in the previous step. 
3.1.4.1 Merging Data 
We will retrieve every unique student ID from the processed student -course dataset. Then we 
will specify a target student through their ID and locate their data within the student -course 
data. Next, we will concatenate the soup of the target student with the soup of every project, 
creating a new data frame. The soup of the target student will be located at the last row. 
3.1.4.2 Calculating Similarity 
To find the similarities between each metadata soup, we will import the Count Vectorizer  
library and apply it onto the soup data frame to remove stop words and create a count matrix. 
What the vectorizer does is to convert the data frame into a matrix that counts the frequency of 
each word as seen in Figure 3.10. Different from another technique called Term Frequency -
Inverse Document Frequency (TF -IDF), Count Vectorizer does not lower the importance of 
certain terms since all it does is counting 
 
Figure 3.10: Count Matrix Sample 

--- page 28 ---
18 
Then, we’ll find the similarity between the target and every other row by using cosine similarity, 
a v ery popular measure in text analysis. The formula can be found in Figure 3.11. Cosine 
similarity measures the cosine of the angle between two vectors. This means that the measure 
judges’ similarity not through magnitude but through orientation. It mostly o utperforms both 
Euclidean and Manhattan distances.  
 
Figure 3.11: Cosine Similarity Formula 
As seen in Figure 3.12, it is advantageous because even if the two similar rows are far apart by 
the distance, chances are they may still be oriented closer together. Cosine similarity has a time 
complexity of m*n, m representing the number of predictions and n representing the number of 
items. 
 
Figure 3.12: Angle vs Distance 

--- page 29 ---
19 
3.2 Design Processes and Research  
Before deciding on the functionalities of our applicati on and the UI, we conducted small 
research with the Vincent Mary School of Science and Technology students who are our 
potential target users. Through this research we were able to decide on the application features 
and user personas. 
3.2.1 Brainstorming 
Brainstorming is a method design teams use to generate ideas to solve clearly defined design 
problems [6]. Everyone takes time to think and express their ideas freely.  
Firstly, our team started brainstorming ideas for our project by referring to the problem 
statement. Our team came up with several ideas to solve the student’s problems. 
Secondly, we moved on to the affinity diagram. An affinity diagram helps to unify large 
amounts of data by finding relationships between concepts or ideas. They allow you to organize 
facts, opinions, and issues into taxonomies to help diagnose complex prob lems and identify 
common issues [7]. With all the ideas we brainstormed previously, we clustered similar ideas 
into groups. As you can observe from Figure 3.13, for the authentication related to the Sign -
up/Log-in screen we have grouped all the features re lated to the authentication in one group 
using the Similarity principle. Similarly, we did the same for the rest of the other features as 
well.  
Thirdly, after we grouped all the features together, we named these groups to describe 
the entire group of idea s. For instance, for the features Display projects, Menu and Available 
Projects we grouped them together and named the group “HomeScreen” as all these features 
will be available in the HomeScreen. Likewise, we did the same process for all the other 
features.  
--- page 30 ---
20 
Lastly, our team took time to vote on the features that in our opinion will really satisfy 
the user needs.  
 
Figure 3.13: Affinity Diagram   
3.2.2 User Persona 
User personas are about creating products with a specific, not generic, user in mind. They are 
archetypical users whose goals and characteristics represent the needs of a larger group of users. 
We made 2 fictional representations of our ideal target audience. Our first user persona is a 
female, Saranya, from the computer science program about to enroll in senior project 1 as shown 
in Figure 3.14. She is good with coding, designing and web development. Her main issue is that 
she has no idea what kind of project she can do. To tackle her problems, AuIdea provides a 
platform to view past projects done by her peers which will give her some ideas.  

--- page 31 ---
21 
Figure 3.14: User Persona 1 
Our second user persona is a male named Martian from Information Technology about to enroll 
in senior project 2, shown in Figure 3.15. He is more into informatics and data. His pain points 
are related to senior project 2.  
 
Figure 3.15: User Persona 2 

--- page 32 ---
22 
3.2.3 User Journey 
User journeys are the step-by-step journey that a user takes to reach their goal. This journey 
often consists of several application screens and decision points that carry the user from one 
step to another. The user journey is used to map out the current journey a typical user might 
take to reach their goal. We started by creating a narrative - a story of how the user interacts 
with our app. We defined the scenarios for each persona and their expectations and mapped the 
story based on our user research. From Figure 3.16 and Figure 3.17, we can obs erve how each 
of our user persona from Vincent Mary of Science and Technology stumbles upon AuIdea when 
he/she decides to do her Senior Project. In the user journey we have progressed from users 
installing the application to them using it.  
(1) Launch — Saranya will be working on her first senior project, but she has no 
idea what it entails or how to select a good advisor. Since she must choose an 
advisor as well as a topic a semester in advance, she must do it now. She seeks 
advice from her adviser, that is wh en she learns about the app "AuIdea," that 
showcases all the previous projects as well as the advisor's contact details. She 
decides to give this app a try to obtain a better idea, so she downloads and 
activates it as soon as she gets home. 
(2) Sign up — She is directed to the sign-up screen after installing the app since she 
is a first -time user. She logs onto the application using her university email 
address. 
(3) Surfing — Multiple projects are displayed at random on the HomeScreen. So, 
she scrolls through the p rojects that have been presented to her and looks at a 
couple of them to learn further about those. 
--- page 33 ---
23 
(4) Filter — She clicks the filter icon, which sends her to the filter screen, where she 
filters the senior project type and semester she's looking for. 
(5) View — After filtering, she is shown projects that match the filter. She looks at 
the project details, such as the project title, description, team members, and 
advisor name, as she scrolls through her recommendations. 
 
Figure 3.16: User Journey 1 
(1) Launch — In the coming semester, Martian will begin senior project number 
two. He understands how to fulfill the criteria of senior project 2 and what it 
implies because he has already completed senior project 1. He has some 
experience and ideas about how the projects should be done and who to choose 
as his advisor because he has already completed senior project 1. He goes to his 
pals and tells them about his concerns about senior project 2 once he has these 
thoughts. He learns about this app called "AuIdea" from h is buddies, which 
exhibits all his previous creations. He decides to give this app the benefit of the 
doubt and downloads it. 
(2) Sign up — After he's finished installing the program, he'll be taken to the login 
screen, where he can either login or sign up. As a first -time user, he selects the 
signup option and enters his university email address to use the app. 

--- page 34 ---
24 
(3) Surfing — After logging in, th e program leads him to HomeScreen. The 
HomeScreen displays a random selection of projects to him. He proceeds to the 
page where all the recommended projects are presented to him based on his 
previous academic knowledge because he is already well versed about the types 
of projects he desires. He looks at each of the ten initiatives that were suggested 
to him. 
(4) Filter — He went to the home screen and filtered the projects since he wanted to 
learn more about senior projects. Only senior projects 2 are listed after he filters, 
which is exactly what he wanted. 
(5) View — Based on his parameters, several projects are displayed. He looks at a 
few of the suggested projects as he scrolls through them. He also downloads the 
project report to read it and have a better understanding of how previous students 
completed the project and achieved the senior project 2 criteria. 
 
Figure 3.17: User Journey 2 
3.2.4 Low Fidelity Prototype 
To design the UI of our project, a low fidelity prototype was first created. Here, we tried to 
prototype a quick and easy tangible representation of the use flow. Each screen was made using 
the features decided in the affinity diagram and was designed in a way that made the user 

--- page 35 ---
25 
experience easier. The prototype, shown in Figure 3.18 was then used to do usability testing to 
check the ease of use and whether our user personas were satisfied with the app and its features.  
 
Figure 3.18 Low Fidelity Prototype 
3.2.5 High Fidelity Prototype 
Once the low fidelity prototype was finalized, Adobe XD was used to  create the high-fidelity 
prototype. Computer -based high -fidelity prototypes frequently provide realistic (mouse -
keyboard) user interactions. High-fidelity prototypes get as near to a true portrayal of the user 
interface as possible. Many improvements were  made here, shown in Figure 3.19, when 
compared to the low fidelity prototype. The screens now have a theme and color scheme which 
was decided based on the Vincent Mary School of Science and Technology’s brand color.  

--- page 36 ---
26 
 
Figure 3.19 High Fidelity Prototype 
3.2.6 User Testing 
User testing is the process through which the interface and functions of a website, app, product, 
or service are tested by real users who perform specific tasks in realistic conditions. AuIdea’s 
user testing was done amongst the faculty students as they are our target audience. Throughout 
this process, we tried to analyze the user behavior when they interacted with our app. An 
example question would be ‘If you were looking for all the professor's details, where would you 
expect to find it ?’. Majority of the user’s answers to such questions matched with our 
application’s layout. After the testing phase, questions were asked to the user to find out more 
about how they felt while trying to use the app and whether there was anything they would like 
to change about it. Most of the users had nothing to change since they felt the features were 
very out and front and easy to reach and perform certain tasks. 

--- page 37 ---
27 
Chapter 4: Features of the application 
In this chapter, we will go through various features provided by our application that solve the 
user’s problems as stated before.  
4.1 System Architecture 
As seen in Figure 4.1, the project is separated into two major parts: the user side (application) 
and the system side (service).  
At the system side, a recommender system is used to predict projects that a user may 
like. These predictions are then stored in a table that is a part of the AuIdea database. Finally, 
the web APIs allow the AuIdea application to interact and retrieve the stored data.  
At the user side, the user downloads the application and their google account is 
authenticated using firebase authentication. The API then retrieves the id of the user and passes 
along the recommended projects as well as all the other projects and professor’s details. 
 
Figure 4.1: Project Workflow 

--- page 38 ---
28 
4.2 Functionalities 
4.2.1 User Login Screen 
The first screen user will see is the login page Figure 4.2. If they are a new user, they will be 
required to sign up using the AU google account. Their cr edentials will then be authenticated 
and stored via the firebase authentication feature.  
 
Figure 4.2: Login Screen 
4.2.2 Explore Senior Projects Displayed 
This is the 2nd screen of our application after the user logs in. This feature will allow the user 
to view all the past senior projects from the year 2016 -2 up to date. Information like project 

--- page 39 ---
29 
title, group name, semester, project type is displayed as shown in Figure 4.3. Two different 
colors have been used to distinguish between senior project 1 and 2 to make it easier for the 
user to read information. The top of the home screen also contains the filter and save button 
which are described below respectively. 
 
Figure 4.3: Display senior projects  
4.2.3 Filter Displayed Senior Project 
Filter feature is used to make it easier for users to find the exact project type and semester they 
are looking for. Once they click on the filter button on the home screen, they will be redirected 
to the filter screen as shown in Figure 4.4. Upon clicking done, the user will be sent back to the 

--- page 40 ---
30 
home screen where their filtered projects will be displayed. Furthermore, they can also clear the 
filter by using the clear button on the top right corner of the filter screen.  
 
Figure 4.4: Filter projects screen 
4.2.4 Display of saved projects  
The save feature was added to ease the way users displayed projects. If a user likes any project 
and might want to look back at it later, this save feature comes in handy. By simply clicking the 
heart icon on the top right corner of the home screen, they will be able to view their saved 
projects in the save screen Figure 4.5. 

--- page 41 ---
31 
 
Figure 4.5: Favorites screen  
4.2.5 Recommended Project Display 
Like mentioned before, the recommendation algorithm will generate top n projects for each user 
that logs in the app. In this screen, Figure 4.6, top 10 projects are displayed for each user. This 
feature is to give users some idea of the type of project they can make or that suits their expertise.   

--- page 42 ---
32 
 
Figure 4.6: Display recommended projects  
4.2.6 Project and Team Detail Screen 
Upon clicking on a particular project, the user will be able to view all the details of the projects. 
When in the description tab, Figure 4.7 (1) information like project title,  senior project type, 
team name, and project description are displayed. The user will also be able to download the 
report for that project. In the team tab, Figure 4.7 (2), team members name, id and faculty will 
be displayed. The associated advisor details are also provided at the bottom so if any user wants 
to make a similar project, they know which advisor to contact. The user can click on the button 
beside the advisor to navigate to that advisor’s particular details.  

--- page 43 ---
33 
        
Figure 4.7: Project detail screen (1) and team detail screen (2) 
4.2.7 About Senior Projects Screen 
This feature was particularly added for users who have no idea of what senior project is all 
about. We added a brief description about senior project 1 and 2. Besides that, we also provided 
them with a timeline for what they should do pre and post registration, as shown in Figure 4.8. 

--- page 44 ---
34 
         
Figure 4.8: Senior project description screen 
4.2.8 Senior Project Professors Screen 
This screen will show a list of all the Vincent Ma ry School of Science and Technology senior 
project advisors. Their name and images are displayed so students can know which professor’s 
details they are viewing Figure 4.9. Upon clicking the ‘view’ button, they will be redirected to 
the advisor details page Figure 4.10. This screen will again show the advisor’s name and image. 
When on the specialty tab, the user can view each advisor’s specialty to know what type of 

--- page 45 ---
35 
projects each advisor can handle. When on the project tab, the user can view projects advised 
by that advisor. 
 
Figure 4.9: Professor’s display screen 

--- page 46 ---
36 
      
Figure 4.10: Professor’s detail screen 
4.2.9 User Profile Screen 
This is a small feature of the application to let the students view their own profile and details in 
Figure 4.11. But mainl y this feature was added to set the logout button  to let the user exit the 
application.  

--- page 47 ---
37 
 
Figure 4.11: User profile screen  
 
 
 
 

--- page 48 ---
38 
Chapter 5: Preliminary Test 
5.1 Recommendation Algorithm Evaluation 
5.1.1 Recommendation 
We are at the final process of the recommender system. At this step, we will define n (top n), 
which is the number of recommendations we want. Then, as seen in Figure 5.1, we retrieve the 
index of the last row since that is the row of the target student. Next, we get the similarity score 
of every project with the target and sort the similarity scores in descending order, excluding the 
first since that is the similarity between the target and target. Finally, we retrieve the scores of 
the n most similar projects, get their indices, and return  the number of the top n most similar 
projects. We will loop this whole process with every student id until the last and store the 
recommendations. 
 
Figure 5.1: Recommend Function 

--- page 49 ---
39 
5.1.2 Evaluation 
We create a test set by extracting the student ids and their project number from the senior project 
dataset through string operations. As seen in Figure 5.2, we grab all the student ids from both 
the prediction data and the test set. We keep only the rows in the predicted data where the 
student ids match with the ones in the test set and keep only the latest project of a student since 
a student might have failed a project and retook it.  
 
Figure 5.2: Keep Matching IDs 
Next, we calculate the accuracy of the recommender system. As seen in Figure 5.3, if the actual 
chosen project number exists in the top n predicted chosen project numbers, we will add one to 
the count. Finally, we divide our count by the number of students in the test set.  

--- page 50 ---
40 
 
Figure 5.3: Calculate Accuracy 
5.2 AuIdea Application Usability Testing 
Usability testing is the process of evaluating a product or service by putting it to the test with 
real users. The purpose is to discover any usability issues, collect qualitative and quantitative 
data, and establish the level of satisfaction with the product among the participants. 
 
To test the interface for usability, we chose to conduct user experience testing with real users. 
Because our app exclusively contains Vincent Mary School of Science and Technology 
projects, we opted to test the usability with a group of people from the Vincent Mary School of 
Science and Technology faculty. Because our app showcases former senior projects, we 
concluded that our target audience would be students in their third and fourth years. We 
identified a group of persons wh o met these requirements and asked them to complete the 
following specific tasks 
 
 
 
  

--- page 51 ---
41 
Specific tasks 
 
(1) Find profile screen 
Result — Users were able to go to the screen with the predetermined amount of clicks 
and within the timeframe we set. 
(2) Navigate to Saved screen 
Result — Users were able to travel to the Saved screen without issue by clicking on the 
heart icon in the app. The Saved screen was not difficult to find for any of the users. 
(3) Go to Filter screen and filter 
Result — Some customers were perplexed by the filter icon on the HomeScreen and had 
to look for the filter screen for a few seconds, but most of them had no trouble finding 
it. Filtering was simple and convenient for all users since the user's filter was saved till 
the user clicked the clear button. 
(4) View the project from the home screen 
Result — Users had no trouble accessing the project details because it was only one click 
away. Users were able to browse in the amount of clicks we specified and within the 
time frame we set. 
(5)  Go to the About Screen (The logo in menu)  
Result — Majority of the users had difficulty finding the About Screen as they were 
not aware which button would lead them to that information screen.  
(6) What did the user expect to happen if you click on the heart in the Project Detail 
Screen? 
--- page 52 ---
42 
Result — Most of the users expected the project to be saved in the Save Screen while 
some of them expected the app to take the user to the Saved Screen itself.  
General task - driven feedback questions 
(1) Was anything surprising or did not perform as expected? 
Result — As previously stated, some users expected the heart button to send them to the 
Saved Screen, but this did not happen. Aside from that, everything the consumers were 
instructed to do went just as they expected. 
(2) Was the interface easy for the user to understand? 
Result — Users found the interface easy to use and navigate through the app. All our 
users were satisfied with the user interface and UI as well.  
(3) What was the easiest task to accomplish for the users? 
Result — For most of the users, the easies t task to accomplish was to go to the Project 
Detail screen from the HomeScreen.  
(4) What was the hardest task to accomplish for the users? 
Result — The hardest task the users found to complete was to go to the About Screen.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--- page 53 ---
43 
Chapter 6: Conclusion 
In conclusion, in this project, we have focused on developing an android application with a 
recommender system which recommends the projects to the students based on their academic 
subjects. The recommender system did not go as well as expected. After investig ation, we 
discovered that the data that we have of the student’s skills was small since we have only used 
the courses they have completed. We believe the accuracy of the recommender system can be 
improved if we were to introduce weighting, where we apply i mportance to certain terms, and 
auto-generated keywords, where we generate new terms from existing terms.  
Furthermore, the test set we used to evaluate the result was generated from the senior 
project dataset, which is team -oriented rather than for a sing le student. There would likely be 
an improvement if we were to use the data from a team of students rather than from a single 
student. For the database systems, there is much more to be improved on as the fact table we 
used, the senior project table, was i nappropriate. It would be best if we were to create a new 
fact table and modify the existing senior project table into a more standalone format. 
Furthermore, new tables such as team table, student table, course table and skills table could be 
created. 
For Android application, the features we incorporated in our app are good and work 
well, except for  a few aspects that had a negative influence on our target audience  during 
usability testing and could be improved, rectified, and made compatible with iOS in the future.  
 
--- page 54 ---
44 
References 
[1] Rohit Dwivedi. 2020. Retrieved on October 15, 2021, from  
https://www.analyticssteps.com/blogs/what-are-recommendation-systems-machine-learning 
[2] Kiratijuta Bhumichitr , Songsak Channarukul , Nattachai Saejiem , Rachsuda 
Jiamthapthaksin, Kwankamol Nongpong. 2017. Recommender System for university elective 
course recommendation. 
[3] Bolanle F. Oladeja. 2017. Retrieved on October 15, 2021, from  
https://www.ijser.org/researchpaper/A-RECOMMENDER-SYSTEM-FOR-ACADEMIC-
PROJECTS-REPOSITRY.pdf 
[4] Vincent Mary School of Science and Technology Senior Project Description Portal. 
2021. Retrieved October 11, 2021, from https://sites.google.com/scitech.au.edu/vms -senior-
project/ 
[5]  Kyle Bowen, Matthew D. Pistilli. 2021.   Purdue University: Student preferences on 
mobile app usage. Retrieved October 11, 2021, from 
https://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/students-prefer-apps-to-the-web-when-
using-smartphones.html 
[6] Interface Design Foundation: Brainstorming. Retrieved October 12, 2021, from 
https://www.interaction-design.org/literature/topics/brainstorming 
[7] Digital Healthcare Research: Affinity Diagram. Retrieved on October 12, 2021, from 
https://digital.ahrq.gov/health-it-tools-and-resources/evaluation-resources/workflow-
assessment-health-it-toolkit/all-workflow-tools/affinity-diagram 